AUTOMOBILE HIGH-TEMPERATURE PEST EXTERMINATION DEVICE	PATENT TITLE
FIELD	SECTION TITLE
The present invention relates to an automobile high-temperature pest extermination device which exterminates pests attached to automobiles by a high-temperature treatment.	TECHNICAL FIELD
BACKGROUND	SECTION TITLE
When exporting goods, if insects or the like native to the country of export are attached to the export goods, transportation vessel, etc., problems such as adverse impact on the ecosystem of the destination country by such insects or the like as invasive organisms may occur.	REFERENCE
In particular, damage to agricultural crops by these types of invasive organisms is serious.	REFERENCE
Such invasive organisms are treated as pests, and as a result, unloading of the export goods in the export destination country may not be permitted.	REFERENCE
Thus, strict quarantine of export goods is necessary.	REFERENCE
For example, in recent years, in New Zealand, the attachment of brown marmorated stink bugs to automobiles exported from Japan was confirmed.	REFERENCE
It is known that these stink bugs are difficult to find, extermination thereof is difficult, the bugs' fertility rates are high, etc.	REFERENCE
In New Zealand, where agriculture is extensive, stinkbugs are of particular interest as pests to be exterminated.	REFERENCE
As a result, transport vessels that have confirmed that stink bugs have attached thereto have been forced to leave the country, bringing about a deterioration in the export situation of automobiles from Japan.	REFERENCE
New Zealand has become a very important automobile export market for Japan since automobiles are not domestically produced.	REFERENCE
Thus, the deterioration in the export situation of automobiles from Japan not only has a significant impact on the Japanese economy, but it also hurts New Zealand's economy, which depends on the export automobiles from Japan for domestic distribution.	REFERENCE
Thus, the construction of a means for reliably exterminating pests represented by these stink bugs is an urgent matter.	REFERENCE
Generally, when pests are exterminated, fumigation using an agent such as alkyl iodide is performed (refer to, for example, Patent Literature 1).	REFERENCE
However, since automobiles are precision machines, pest extermination by means of a fumigation agent can adversely affect various components of the automobile, or the fumigation agent may remain in the filter or the like of the air conditioner, which can cause unpleasant odors, which is not preferable.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
Furthermore, fumigation treatment takes several days, and costs increase due to the use of the fumigation agent.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
Thus, in particular in the export of automobiles, in which hundreds of thousands of exported vehicles per year are subjected to treatment, pest extermination by fumigation is too time-consuming and it is necessary to secure an enormous treatment facility to facilitate such a large number of automobiles.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
Appropriate pest extermination of export automobiles thereby is virtually impossible.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
Thus, there is a need for a new method capable of efficiently and reliably exterminating pests for the treatment of a large number of export automobiles.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
[CITATION LIST]	SECTION SUBTITLE
PATENT LITERATURE]	SECTION SUBTITLE
[PTL 1] Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication (Kokai) No. 2003-267803	REFERENCE
SUMMARY	SECTION TITLE
[TECHNICAL PROBLEM]	SECTION SUBTITLE
The present invention was made in light of these problems and aims to provide an automobile high-temperature pest extermination device which can efficiently exterminate pests by a high-temperature treatment without the use of a fumigation agent.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
[SOLUTION TO PROBLEM]	SECTION SUBTITLE
A first invention provides an automobile high-temperature pest extermination device for applying, for a predetermined interval, heated air which has been heated to a pest extermination temperature to a to-be-treated automobile which is housed in a freely accessible manner in a treatment chamber to exterminate pests inside the automobile, the device comprising a circulation fan device arranged in the treatment chamber, a suction part of which is oriented toward the interior of the treatment chamber, a heating member mounted in a discharge part of the circulation fan device, and a rectification member for adjusting the flow direction of the heated air delivered into the chamber via the heating member.	REPHRASED CLAIM
A second invention provides the automobile high-temperature pest extermination device according to the first invention, wherein the rectification member circulates the air in the chamber in the horizontal directions.	REPHRASED CLAIM
A third invention provides the automobile high-temperature pest extermination device according to the first invention, wherein a plurality of treatment chambers are connected in series as a connectable treatment unit so as to house a plurality of to-be-treated automobiles therein.	REPHRASED CLAIM
A fourth invention provides the automobile high-temperature pest extermination device according to the third invention, wherein a plurality of the treatment chambers, which are connected in series, are arranged in parallel rows.	REPHRASED CLAIM
A fifth invention provides the automobile high-temperature pest extermination device according to the third invention, comprising a centralized management part for collectively managing the operations of the plurality of treatment chambers.	REPHRASED CLAIM
[ADVANTAGEOUS EFFECTS OF INVENTION]	SECTION SUBTITLE
According to the automobile high-temperature pest extermination device according to the first invention, since the device for applying, for a predetermined interval, heated air which has been heated to a pest extermination temperature to a to-be-treated automobile which is housed in a freely accessible manner in a treatment chamber to exterminate pests inside the automobile includes a circulation fan device arranged in the treatment chamber, a suction part of which is oriented toward the interior of the treatment chamber, a heating member mounted in a discharge part of the circulation fan device, and a rectification member for adjusting the flow direction of the heated air delivered into the chamber via the heating member, not only can pests be exterminated by a high-temperature treatment without the use of a fumigation agent, but also by providing a circulation fan device and heating member in the treatment chamber and circulating and distributing heated air, the efficiency of the overall process including the temperature rise to the pest extermination temperature and maintaining the temperature can be greatly improved, whereby cost can be reduced.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
According to the automobile high-temperature pest extermination device according to the second invention, in the first invention, since the rectification member circulates the air in the chamber in the horizontal directions, the interior of the treatment chamber can be efficiently heated and heated air can be effectively brought into contact with the interior and exterior of box-type automobiles having a floor plate and a roof plate, whereby appropriate pest extermination can be performed.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
According to the automobile high-temperature pest extermination device according to the third invention, in the first invention, a plurality of treatment chambers are connected in series as a connectable treatment unit so as to house a plurality of to-be-treated automobiles therein.	REPHRASED CLAIM
Thus, since each treatment chamber includes a circulation fan device and a heating member for circulating and distributing heated air, a large number of various types of to-be-treated automobiles can be efficiently treated and adaptation to the size of the installation location becomes easy, whereby versatility is improved.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
According to the automobile high-temperature pest extermination device according to the fourth invention, in the third invention, since a plurality of the treatment chambers, which are connected in series, are arranged in parallel rows, it is possible to treat a large number of to-be-treated automobiles.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
According to the automobile high-temperature pest extermination device according to the fifth invention, in the third or fourth invention, since a centralized management part for collectively managing the operations of the plurality of treatment chambers is included, it is possible to properly perform high-temperature treatment on a large number of to-be-treated automobiles, simplifying the management of the high-temperature treatment and improving processing efficiency.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS	SECTION TITLE
FIG. 1 is a schematic cross-sectional view of an automobile high-temperature pest extermination device according to an embodiment of the present invention.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIG. 2 is a schematic view of a high-temperature pest extermination device in which a plurality of treatment chambers are connected.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIG. 3 is a perspective view of a circulation fan device.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIG. 4 is a schematic view of a high-temperature pest extermination device in which a plurality of treatment chambers are arranged in parallel rows.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIG. 5 is a graph of changes in heating temperatures during high-temperature treatments.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS	SECTION TITLE
FIG. 1 shows an automobile high-temperature pest extermination device 10 according to an embodiment of the present invention, comprising a treatment chamber 20, a circulation fan device 30, heating members 40, and rectification members 45.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Reference sign C represents a to-be-treated automobile, reference numeral 50 represents vehicle interior temperature detection means, and reference numeral 60 represents heating temperature control means.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The high-temperature pest extermination device 10 is a device for exterminating pests attached to the interior or exterior of a to-be-treated automobile C, which is a conventional automobile such as a passenger car or truck, by a high-temperature treatment.	EMBODIMENT
The to-be-treated automobile C is, in particular, an automobile for export.	EMBODIMENT
The high-temperature pest extermination device 10 is mounted in a facility, such as a quarantine inspection facility or the like, at the port at which loading of automobiles for export is carried out.	EMBODIMENT
Target pests for extermination include insects such as stink bugs, cockroaches, weevils, moths, grasshoppers, flies, aphids, and includes larvae and eggs in addition to adult insects.	TECHNICAL TEMPLATE
As shown in FIG. 1, the treatment chamber 20 an enclosed space into and from which a to-be-treated automobile C can be received and discharged and in which the high-temperature treatment can be performed on the to-be-treated automobile C received therein.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The treatment chamber 20 is composed of a ceiling, floor, and side wall, each of which is made of a wall material having heat resistance and thermal insulation properties.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
An inlet 22 and an outlet 23 for receiving and discharging the to-be-treated automobile C, respectively, are formed in the side wall 21.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The inlet 22 and the outlet 23 are arranged opposite each other and the to-be-treated automobile C can pass straight through the chamber from the inlet 22 to the outlet 23.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Furthermore, the inlet 22 and the outlet 23 may be formed by the same opening through which the to-be-treated automobile C, which is advanced (or reversed), can be loaded into the treatment chamber 20, and the to-be-treated automobile C, which is reversed (or advanced), can be discharged from the treatment chamber 20.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Self-propulsion or a transport means such as a conveyor can be appropriately used for the loading of the to-be-treated automobile C into the treatment chamber 20.	EMBODIMENT
In FIG. 1, reference numeral 21a represents a first side wall part in which the inlet 22 is provided, 21b represents a second side wall part facing opposite the first side wall part 21a, 21c represents a third side wall part on which a circulation fan device 30, which is described later, is arranged, and 21d represents a fourth side wall part facing opposite the third side wall part 21c.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Reference numeral 22a represents a loading door part for opening and closing the inlet 22 and 23a represents a discharge door part for opening and closing the outlet 23.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIG. 1, a chamber interior temperature detection means 25 for detecting the temperature inside the chamber is arranged in the treatment chamber 20.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Any known temperature sensor can be used as the chamber interior temperature detection means 25.	EMBODIMENT
The chamber interior temperature detection means 25 is preferably mounted in an area in which the temperature is high as compared to the other areas in the treatment chamber 20.	EMBODIMENT
The installation location of the chamber interior temperature detection means 25 is, for example, in the vicinity of the discharge parts 33 of the circulation fan device 30, which is described later and which corresponds to a heated air generation source.	EMBODIMENT
Thus, by performing temperature detection in areas in which the temperature is high as compared to other areas, it can be assumed that the temperature inside t the treatment chamber 20 as a whole is not higher than the temperature detected by the chamber interior temperature detection means 25.	EMBODIMENT
Furthermore, the temperature inside the chamber can be more accurately estimated by mounting chamber interior temperature detection means 25 in several locations within the treatment chamber 20.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
The size of the treatment chamber 20 can be appropriately selected in accordance with the size of the to-be-treated automobile C, the number of to-be-treaded automobiles to be treated, the size of the installation location, processing efficiency, etc.	EMBODIMENT
Furthermore, as shown in FIG. 2, the treatment chamber 20 may be capable of accommodating a plurality of to-be-treated automobiles C, C by connecting a plurality of connectable units 20u, 20u, 20u in series (20 A).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In the illustrated example, the treatment chamber 20A, in which three units 20u, 20u, 20u are connected, houses a to-be-treated automobile C1, such as an ordinary passenger car, and a to-be-treated automobile C2 which is larger than the to-be-treated automobile C1, such as a bus.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In the treatment chamber 20A, a large to-be-treated automobile C2 is housed in a plurality (two in the illustrated example) of units 20u, 20u.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In other words, it is not necessary that a single unit 20u correspond to a single to-be-treated automobile C.	EMBODIMENT
Rather, housing can be performed in any way as long as the to-be-treated automobile can be housed within the connected treatment chamber 20A.	EMBODIMENT
Therefore, by connecting a plurality of treatment chambers (20u, 20u, 20u), the housing space for the to-be-treated automobiles C within the treatment chamber 20 can be freely adjusted.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Thus, adaptation to the number of to-be-treated automobiles C and the size of the installation location becomes easy, whereby versatility is improved.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Note that in the illustrated example, the units 20u, 20u are connected via the side wall parts.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
However, the side wall parts may be configured to be detachable, such that the units 20u, 20u may be directly connected to each other at the time of connection without being connected via the side wall parts.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIG. 1, the circulation fan device 30 is arranged inside the treatment chamber 20, circulates and distributes heated air in the treatment chamber 20, and operates to prevent unevenness in the heating of the chamber to maintain a substantially uniform heating temperature.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIGS. 1 and 3, the embodied circulation fan device 30 comprises a suction part 32, a discharge part 33, and a large propeller fan 35, which is a fan member.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In the drawings, reference numeral 31 represents the housing member of the circulation fan device 30.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The circulation fan device 30 is arranged on the side wall part 21 (the third side wall part 21c) of the treatment chamber 30 so that the suction part 32 formed in the front surface of the housing member 31 faces towards the interior of the treatment chamber.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIGS. 1 and 3, the fan member 35 is in the form of a suction fan which is arranged so as to face the interior of the treatment chamber 20 and which suctions air inside the treatment chamber 20 via the suction part 35.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The form of the fan member 35 may appropriately have two blades, three blades, four blades, or the like.	EMBODIMENT
The size of the fan member 35 may be appropriately selected in accordance with the size of the treatment chamber 20, heating efficiency, etc., and in the present embodiment, the fan member 35 is large-sized, having a diameter of, for example, about 1000 mm to 1500 mm.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
One or a plurality (one in the illustrated example) of fan members 35 may be provided in accordance with the size of the treatment chamber.	EMBODIMENT
The heating member 40 is a member for heating the air suctioned by the fan member 35.	EMBODIMENT
Heating members 40 are arranged in the discharge parts 33, which are described later.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Any known heating device such as a heat exchanger, such as steam piping or hot water piping, or an electric wire heater, may be used as the heating member 40.	EMBODIMENT
The heating member 40 shown in FIG. 3 is a steam piping-type heat exchanger in which a plurality of straight tubular piping members 41 are arranged in parallel to allow steam to flow through each piping member 41.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Since a plurality of piping members 41 are formed in a straight pipe shape and arranged in parallel, the occurrence of temperature unevenness upon heating is suppressed, whereby thermal efficiency is improved.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
As shown in FIGS. 1 and 3, the discharge parts 33 are opening parts for ventilation which are formed by fully opening both side portions of the housing member 31 of the circulation fan device 30.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The heated air which is suctioned by the fan member 35 and heated by the heating members 40 is discharged from the treatment chamber 20 through the discharge parts 33.	EMBODIMENT
Furthermore, rectification members 45 for adjusting the flow direction of the heated air discharged into the chamber are provided in the discharge parts 33.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The rectification members 45 are wind direction restriction parts 46 which are provided on both ends of the front of the housing member 31 and which are formed of plate-shaped members which are bent and extend from the end parts toward the front side.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The rectification members 45 formed from the wind direction restriction parts also serve as guides for discharging the heated air from the discharge parts 33 in a straight forward direction without diffusing and for allowing the air in the chamber to flow into the suction part 32.	EMBODIMENT
Note that, though not illustrated, discharge fan members may be arranged in the discharge parts 33 as necessary.	EMBODIMENT
By arranging discharge fan members in the discharge parts 33, the discharge of heated air can be further promoted.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
As shown in FIG. 1, since the circulation fan device 30 described above is arranged so that the fan member 35 faces the interior of the treatment chamber 20, heated air is circulated in the horizontal directions in the treatment chamber 20.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In particular, first, air in the treatment chamber 20 is suctioned by the fan member 35 from the suction part 32 on the front side of the circulation fan device 30.	EMBODIMENT
This suctioned air is discharged toward both sides of the circulation fan device 30 via the discharge parts 33 on the rear side of the fan member 35.	EMBODIMENT
At this time, the air is heated while passing through the heating members 40 arranged in the discharge parts 33, and the heated air is discharged from the interior of the treatment chamber 20 through the discharge parts 33.	EMBODIMENT
The heated air discharged from the discharge parts 33 circulates along the walls of the chamber 20.	EMBODIMENT
The air volume and air speed of the fan member 35 of the circulation fan device 30 will be described.	EMBODIMENT
Since the fan member 35 of the present embodiment is a large-sized propeller fan having a diameter of about 1000 mm to 1500 mm, the air volume thereof is 1500 m3 per minute, and the average air speed is 5.8 m per second, a degree at which the leaves and branches of a tree would shake (wind power 2).	EMBODIMENT
The treatment chamber of the present embodiment, in the case of a large chamber, has a volume of 391 m3, and in the case of a small chamber, has a volume of 346 m3.	EMBODIMENT
In accordance with experimentation, an air speed of heated air of 4 to 7 m/sec (wind power 2 to 3) is preferred, since the heat treatment can be efficiently performed at such an air speed.	EMBODIMENT
In the present embodiment, since the efficiency of raising and maintaining the heat treatment temperature (60 to 80 °C) is good, the processing time of the entire process can be drastically reduced to about 30 minutes or less.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Next, the circulation and distribution of heated air within the heating chamber will be described.	EMBODIMENT
Heated air discharged from the discharge parts 33 circulates along the side walls of the treatment chamber 20, as described above.	EMBODIMENT
The heated air circulating in the direction of the first side wall part 21a of FIG. 1 then circulates in the direction of the fourth side wall part 21d along the first side wall part 21a.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Further, heated air circulating in the direction of the second side wall part 21b then circulates in the direction of the fourth side wall part 21d along the second side wall part 21b bilaterally symmetrically with the heated air circulating in the direction of the first side wall part 21b.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The first side wall part 21a side heated air and the second side wall part 21b side heated air combine in the central part of the fourth side wall part 21d, circulate in the central direction of the treatment chamber 20, and are suctioned by the fan member 35 of the circulation fan device 30 toward the circulation fan device 30.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Thus, the circulation fan device 30 creates a flow of air from the third side wall part 21c to the fourth side wall part 21d along the side wall part 21 of the treatment chamber 20 by suctioning air inside the treatment chamber through the suction part 32 on the front side of the circulation fan device 30 by the fan member 35 and discharging the air as heated air from the discharge parts 33 on both sides.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Further, since the heated air circulated on the fourth side wall part 21d side is again suctioned by the fan member 35, the heated air in the treatment chamber 20 is circulated.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Since the discharge parts 33 are formed by fully opening the side parts of the circulation fan device 30, the discharged heated air is circulated in the treatment chamber 20 in the substantially horizontal directions.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
When the heated air is circulated by the circulation fan device 30, as shown in FIG. 1, rectification members 45 for adjusting the flow direction of the heated air are preferably arranged in various locations within the treatment chamber 20.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The rectification members 45 each include a wind receiving surface 49 angled in a predetermined direction with respect to the flow direction of the heated air.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The wind receiving surfaces 49 guide the flow direction in the direction of inclination when the heated air collides with the wind receiving surfaces 49 of the rectification members 45.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The rectification members 45 of the present embodiment include wind direction auxiliary parts 47 arranged in the corners of the treatment chamber 20, and a wind direction auxiliary part 48 arranged in the vicinity of the junction of the heated air from the first side wall part 21a side and the heated air from the second side wall part 21b side, as well as wind direction restriction parts 46 consisting of plate-like members disposed in the vicinity of the discharge parts 33 of the circulation fan device 30.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The heated air discharged from the circulation fan device 30 can be more efficiently circulated and distributed within the treatment chamber by providing the wind direction restriction parts 46 and the wind direction auxiliary parts 47, 48 of the rectification members 45.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Next, as shown in FIG. 1, vehicle interior temperature detection means 50 are members which are mounted inside the to-be-treated automobiles C and which detect the vehicle interior temperature.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
A known temperature sensor is used as the vehicle interior temperature detection means 50.	EMBODIMENT
Vehicle interior temperature detection means 50 are appropriately mounted in a position which is relatively resistant to heating or a position which is relatively easily heated.	EMBODIMENT
Positions which are relatively resistant to heating include the interior of the engine compartment, under the seats, etc., of the to-be-treated automobile C, and are positions (low-temperature positions) at which the temperature tends to be lowest compared with other positions within the to-be-treated automobile C at the time of high-temperature treatment.	EMBODIMENT
Furthermore, positions which are relatively easily heated include on the seat, etc., of the to-be-treated automobile C, and are positions (high-temperature positions) at which the temperature tends to be highest as compared to the other positions within the to-be-treated automobile C at the time of high-temperature treatment.	EMBODIMENT
By detecting the temperature at positions (low-temperature positions) at which the temperature tends to be lowest compared with other positions within the to-be-treated automobile C using the vehicle interior temperature detection means 50, it is possible to assume that the vehicle interior temperature of the to-be-treated automobile C as a whole is not less than the temperature detected by the vehicle interior temperature detection means 50.	EMBODIMENT
Furthermore, by detecting the temperature at positions (high-temperature positions) at which the temperature tends to be highest compared with other positions within the to-be-treated automobile C using the vehicle interior temperature detection means 50, it is possible to assume that the vehicle interior temperature of the to-be-treated automobile 50 as a whole is not less than the temperature detected by the vehicle interior temperature detection means 50.	EMBODIMENT
By mounting vehicle interior temperature detection means 50 in both the positions (low-temperature positions) which are resistant to heating and the positions (high-temperature positions) which are easily heated and detecting the temperatures thereof, it is possible to assume that the vehicle interior temperature of the to-be-treated automobile C as a whole is not less than the temperature detected at the low-temperature positions and not greater than the temperature detected at the high-temperature positions.	EMBODIMENT
Note that vehicle interior temperature detection means 50 are preferably arranged in several locations within the to-be-treated automobile C.	EMBODIMENT
By detecting the vehicle interior temperatures at several locations, the vehicle interior temperature of the to-be-treated automobile C can be more accurately estimated.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
As shown in FIG. 1, the heating temperature control means 60 is mounted outside the treatment chamber 20 and controls the heating temperature of the circulation fan device 30 based on the vehicle interior temperature detection means 50.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Any known control device can be used as the heating temperature control means 60.	EMBODIMENT
Insects such as stink bugs, which are extermination target pests, are weak against high temperatures.	REFERENCE
Such insects are killed by exposure to high temperatures of, for example, 50 °C or higher.	REFERENCE
It is thought that the proteins within the body of the pests solidify due to the high temperatures.	REFERENCE
However, the to-be-treated automobiles C are precision machinery and utilize members made of resins in various places.	REFERENCE
Thus, exposure to high temperatures for long periods adversely affects various equipment and members, etc., which may cause damage such as breakdown, damage, or deterioration.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
In order to avoid adverse effects on the to-be-treated automobiles C due to the high temperatures, the heating treatment is set to 80 °C or less.	EMBODIMENT
The heating temperature control means 60 controls so as to restrict the vehicle interior temperature of the to-be-treated automobile C detected by the vehicle interior temperature detection means 50 to 50 to 80 °C, more preferably 60 to 75 °C.	EMBODIMENT
Control of the circulation fan device 30 is performed by adjusting the rotation speed of the fan member 35, the amount of steam provided to the circulation fan device 30, etc.	EMBODIMENT
The heating temperature control means 60 controls the heating temperature of the circulation fan device 30 based on the chamber interior temperature detection means 25 along with the control of the circulation fan device 30 based on the vehicle interior temperature detection means 50.	EMBODIMENT
The chamber interior temperature detected by the chamber interior temperature detection means 25 is estimated to be the highest temperature within the treatment chamber 20, and thus corresponds to the temperature upper limit of the chamber interior temperature.	EMBODIMENT
Further, the chamber interior temperature corresponds to the vehicle exterior temperature of the to-be-treated automobile C, and thus impacts pest extermination of the exterior of the to-be-treated automobile C, damage due to the high temperature, or the like.	EMBODIMENT
Thus, in the same manner as the vehicle interior temperature, the heating temperature control means 60 control so as to restrict the chamber interior temperature (the vehicle exterior temperature of the to-be-treated automobile C) within the treatment chamber detected by the chamber interior temperature detection means 25 to 50 to 80 °C or less, more preferably 60 to 75 °C.	EMBODIMENT
Note that in the case of the treatment chamber 20A, in which a plurality of units 20u are connected, since it is necessary to manage the chamber interior temperature as the entire treatment chamber 20A (all units), it is preferable to collectively control the detection temperature based on the chamber interior temperature detection means of each unit 20u.	EMBODIMENT
Control of the treatment duration of the high-temperature treatment is performed by the heating temperature control means 60.	EMBODIMENT
The treatment duration of the high-temperature treatment is set in accordance with the size or the number of the to-be-treated automobiles C, etc., and is, for example, about 10 to 20 minutes after the vehicle interior temperature of the to-be-treated automobile C reaches a predetermined temperature.	EMBODIMENT
By selected this treatment duration, extermination target pests can be reliably killed, and processing efficiency and cost are also preferable.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In the present embodiment, since the efficiency of raising and maintaining the heat treatment temperature (60 to 80 °C) is high, as described above, the overall treatment duration can be shortened to about 30 minutes or less.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In the high-temperature pest extermination device 10 of the present invention, as shown in FIG. 4, a plurality of treatment chambers are arranged in parallel rows (20L, 20L, 20L), whereby high-temperature treatment can be performed on a plurality of to-be-treated automobiles C.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The plurality of treatment chambers arranged in parallel rows 20L, 20L, 20L may be composed of a plurality of connectable units 20u connected in series (treatment chamber 20A).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The illustrated example includes three rows of treatment chambers 20L, 20L, 20L each composed of a treatment chamber 20A in which six units 20u are connected in a single row.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Each row of the treatment chambers 20L, 20L, 20L irregularly houses a small to-be-treated automobile C1, a large to-be-treated automobile C2, and a medium to-be-treated automobile C3.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
By arranged a plurality of connected treatment chambers 20A in parallel rows, high-temperature treatment can be performed on a larger number of to-be-treated automobiles, whereby processing efficiency can be increased.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Note that, in the present embodiment, when five units were connected and four to-be-treated automobiles were housed therein, it was possible to raise the temperature from 35 °C to 80 °C in about 10 minutes.	EMBODIMENT
Thus, even when the treatment chamber is composed of a plurality of connected units, the total treatment duration including the temperature rise and maintenance of the heat treatment temperature (60 to 80 °C) can be shortened to about (within) 30 minutes.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Furthermore, the high-temperature pest extermination device 10, in which a plurality of treatment chambers are arranged in parallel rows, preferably includes a centralized management part 70 for collectively managing the high temperature treatment by the circulation fan devices 30 of each of the treatment chambers 20L, 20L, 20L.	EMBODIMENT
Any known controller can be used as the centralized management part 70.	EMBODIMENT
The centralized management part 70 controls each corresponding circulation fan device 30 based on the vehicle interior temperature detection means 50 of each of the plurality of treatment chambers 20.	EMBODIMENT
In particular, when a treatment chamber 20A in which a plurality of units 20u are connected is included, each circulation fan device 30 is preferably controlled based on the chamber interior temperature detection means 25 and vehicle interior temperature detection means 50.	EMBODIMENT
This is because treatment at a chamber interior temperature which is managed for the treatment chamber 20A as a whole in which the units are connected, is more advantageous in terms of efficiency than managing the temperature upper limit of the high-temperature treatment for each of the plurality of to-be-treated automobiles C.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Note that the centralized management part 70 may be configured to serve as the heating temperature control means 60 and heating temperature control means 60 may be additionally provided to control each high-temperature treatment based on each heating temperature control means 60.	EMBODIMENT
The centralized management part 70 makes it possible to easily assess the overall situation of the high-temperature treatment for a large number of to-be-treated automobiles C and to efficiently respond to the treatment situation.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Next the automobile high-temperature pest extermination method using the high-temperature pest extermination device 10 of the present invention will be described.	EMBODIMENT
As shown in FIG. 1, the high-temperature pest extermination method includes loading a to-be-treated automobile C into the treatment chamber 20, heating the treatment chamber 20, detecting the vehicle interior temperature by the vehicle interior temperature detection means 50 mounted inside the to-be-treated automobile C, controlling the heating temperature by the heating temperature control means 60 based on the vehicle interior temperature detection means 50, and performing the high-temperature treatment on the to-be-treated automobile C at a temperature higher than a predetermined temperature, whereby pests inside the to-be-treated automobile C are exterminated.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
An example of the high-temperature pest extermination method in which a single to-be-treated automobile C is treated in a single treatment chamber 20 will be described in detail below.	EMBODIMENT
First, a necessary number of vehicle interior temperature detection means 50 are arranged, in advance, in positions which are relatively resistant to heating, such as under the seat or within the engine compartment of the to-be-treated automobile C.	EMBODIMENT
In the example illustrated in FIG. 1, an engine compartment vehicle interior temperature detection means 50a, an under-seat vehicle interior temperature detection means 50b, and a trunk compartment vehicle interior temperature detection means 50c are arranged.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Furthermore, the temperature conditions and treatment duration of the high-temperature treatment by the circulation fan device 30 are set by the heating temperature control means 60.	EMBODIMENT
The conditions of the high-temperature treatment include a temperature upper limit of 75 °C, a treatment temperature of 60 °C, and a treatment duration of 10 minutes.	EMBODIMENT
After the high-temperature treatment has been set, the to-be-treated automobile C is loaded into the treatment chamber 20 by self-propulsion or by a conveyor.	EMBODIMENT
The doors, hood, trunk lid, etc., of the to-be-treated automobile C loaded into the treatment chamber 20 are opened to allow air to flow into the passenger compartment, the engine compartment, the trunk, etc.	EMBODIMENT
Subsequently, the inlet 22 of the treatment chamber 20 is closed, closing the interior of the chamber, and heating in the treatment chamber 20 by the circulation fan device 30 is started.	EMBODIMENT
The circulation fan device 30 circulates heated air in the horizontal directions of the treatment chamber 20 by the fan member 35.	EMBODIMENT
In particular, air inside the treatment chamber 20 is suctioned by the fan member 35 through the front of the circulation fan device 30, and the suctioned air is heated by the heating members 40 within the housing member 31.	EMBODIMENT
The air heated in this way is discharged as heated air into the treatment chamber 20 from the discharge parts 33 on both sides of the circulation fan device 30.	EMBODIMENT
At this time, since the discharge parts 33 are formed by opening the entirety of the sides of the circulation fan device 30, the discharged heated air circulates through the treatment chamber 20 in the horizontal directions.	EMBODIMENT
The heated air discharged from the sides of the circulation fan device 30 circulates from the third side wall part 21c side to the fourth side wall part 21d side along the side wall parts of the first side wall part 21a side and the second side wall part 21b side.	EMBODIMENT
Further, the heated air on both sides collides in the central part of the fourth side wall part 21d, circulates in the central direction of the treatment chamber 20, and is suctioned into the circulation fan device 30 by the fan member 35 of the circulation fan device 30.	EMBODIMENT
Thus, the circulation of the heated air in the horizontal directions along both the left and right side wall parts 21 within the treatment chamber 20 is repeated.	EMBODIMENT
As a result, the interior of the treatment chamber 20 can be efficiently heated.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Furthermore, heated air can be effectively brought into contact with the interior and exterior of a box-type automobile having a floor plate and a roof plate.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In the heating by the circulation fan device 30, the interior of the treatment chamber 20 is entirely heated so that the interior of the to-be-treated automobile C loaded into the treatment chamber 20 is gradually heated.	EMBODIMENT
The graph of FIG. 5 shows the temperature change by the circulation fan device 30.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In the graph of FIG. 5, the temperature changes of the chamber interior temperature (vehicle external temperature) detected by the chamber interior temperature detection means 25, a first vehicle interior temperature detected by the engine compartment vehicle interior temperature detection means 50a, a second vehicle interior temperature detected by the under-seat vehicle interior temperature detection means 50b, and a third vehicle interior temperature detected by the trunk vehicle interior temperature detection means 50c are shown.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIG. 5, as the chamber interior temperature (refer to reference numeral 25) rises, the vehicle interior temperatures rise (reference numerals 50a, 50b, 50c).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Operation of the circulation fan device 30 is controlled by the heating temperature control means 60 so that the chamber interior temperature is maintained at the temperature upper limit (75 °C in this example) based on the chamber interior temperature detected by the chamber interior temperature detection means 25.	EMBODIMENT
This is a measure to prevent damage or the like from occurring in the to-be-treated automobile C when the chamber interior temperature is higher than 80 °C.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
As shown in FIG. 5, the vehicle interior temperature rises over time as the temperature of the exterior of the vehicle rises.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
By maintaining the chamber interior temperature at the temperature upper limit (75 °C), the increased vehicle interior temperature can reach the treatment temperature (60 °C in this example) of the high-temperature treatment.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The change in the vehicle interior temperature differs depending on the position in the to-be-treated automobile C.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Thus, the time to reach the treatment temperature (60 °C) of the high-temperature treatment also is not the same for each position.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In the example shown in FIG. 5, the vehicle interior temperature (50c) of the trunk first reaches the treatment temperature, and then the engine compartment vehicle interior temperature (50a) and the under-seat vehicle interior temperature (50b) reach the treatment temperature in this order.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Among the plurality of vehicle interior temperature detection means (50a, 50b, 50c), the time (t) at which the temperature reaches the treatment temperature (60 ° C) last is defined as the high-temperature treatment start time.	EMBODIMENT
The position which reaches the treatment temperature last is presumed to be the position within the to-be-treated automobile C at which the temperature is lowest.	EMBODIMENT
Thus, when this position reaches the treatment temperature, it can be considered that the entire to-be-treated automobile C has reached the treatment temperature or higher and the entire to-be-treated automobile C is in a state in which the high-temperature treatment can be appropriately performed.	EMBODIMENT
Thus, by using this time (t) as the high-temperature treatment start time, the to-be-treated automobile C can be subjected to the high-temperature treatment without issue.	EMBODIMENT
The high-temperature treatment is maintained in a high-temperature state at the treatment temperature (60 °C) or higher from the start time (t) until the set duration (10 minutes in this example) has elapsed.	EMBODIMENT
During the high-temperature treatment, the chamber interior temperature is maintained at the temperature upper limit (75 °C).	EMBODIMENT
As a result, the vehicle interior temperature of the to-be-treated automobile C rises within the range of the chamber interior temperature (75 °C) or less even after reaching the treatment temperature (60 °C).	EMBODIMENT
Thus, the vehicle interior temperature does not reach a high temperature greater than 80 °C, whereby adverse effects on the to-be-treated automobile C due to the high temperature can be prevented.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
During the high-temperature treatment (10 minutes), the vehicle interior temperature and the vehicle exterior temperature (chamber interior temperature) are continuously maintained at 50 °C (60 °C in this example) or higher, a temperature at which pests are killed.	EMBODIMENT
Thus, pests adhering to the to-be-treated automobile C can be reliably exterminated.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
After the treatment duration (t + 10 minutes) of the high-temperature treatment has elapsed, the circulation fan device 30 stops and the inlet 22 and outlet 23 of the treatment chamber 20 open, whereby the to-be-treated automobile C is gradually cooled.	EMBODIMENT
After gradual cooling of the to-be-treated automobile C has been carried out as necessary, a new untreated to-be-treated automobile C is loaded, and the same process is then repeated.	EMBODIMENT
Next, a high-temperature pest extermination method in which a high-temperature pest extermination device 10 in which a plurality of connected treatment chambers 20 are arranged in a plurality of rows is used will be described.	EMBODIMENT
As shown in FIG. 4, in this high-temperature pest extermination method, a plurality of to-be-treated automobiles C in which vehicle interior temperature detection means 50 have been appropriately arranged are appropriately loaded into the treatment chambers 20L, 20L, 20L.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
After the necessary number of loadings has been completed, the treatment chambers 20L, 20L, 20L are closed.	EMBODIMENT
Thereafter, heating by the circulation fan devices 30 of the respective treatment chambers 20 is started by the control of the centralized management part 70.	EMBODIMENT
The centralized management part 70 controls the operation of each of the circulation fan devices 30 so as to maintain all of the chamber interior temperatures at the temperature upper limit (75 °C) or less based on the chamber interior temperature detected by the chamber interior temperature detection means 25 of each treatment chamber 20.	EMBODIMENT
Furthermore, the vehicle interior temperatures of the to-be-treated automobiles C rise over time as the chamber interior temperatures rise.	EMBODIMENT
The centralized management part 70 performs control of the circulation fan devices 30 of the plurality of treatment chambers arranged in parallel rows 20L, 20L, 20L based on the vehicle interior temperature detection means 50 for each row.	EMBODIMENT
In other words, each treatment chamber 20L, 20L, 20L is controlled so that high-temperature treatment is performed from the time any of the plurality of vehicle interior temperature detection means 50 last reaches the treatment temperature (60 ° C) until the set treatment duration (10 minutes) has elapsed.	EMBODIMENT
In each row, gradual cooling of the to-be-treated automobile C is sequentially performed from the treatment chamber 20 L in the row in which the treatment duration of high-temperature treatment has elapsed, and the replacement with new untreated to-be-treated automobiles C is performed.	EMBODIMENT
Thereafter, the same steps are repeated.	EMBODIMENT
Thus, when the high-temperature treatments by each of the circulation fan devices 30 of the plurality of treatment chambers arranged in parallel rows 20L, 20L, 20L are collectively managed by the centralized management part 70, high-temperature treatment can be appropriately performed for more to-be-treated automobiles C and management of a plurality of high-temperature treatments is simplified, whereby treatment efficiency is improved.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
As illustrated and described above, the automobile high-temperature pest extermination device of the present invention includes a circulation fan device arranged in the treatment chamber, the suction part of which is oriented toward the inside of the treatment chamber, a heating member mounted in the discharge part of the circulation fan device, and a rectification member for adjusting the flow direction of the heated air delivered into the chamber via the heating member.	REPHRASED CLAIM
Thus, pests can be extermination by the high-temperature treatment and it is not necessary to use a conventional fumigating agent, whereby adverse effects such as residual fumigation agent within the to-be-treated automobile can be prevented.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Furthermore, by providing a circulation fan device and heating member within the treatment chamber and circulating and distributing the heated air, the overall efficiency of the treatment including the temperature rise to the pest extermination temperature and maintenance thereof can be greatly improved, whereby cost can be reduced.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY	SECTION TITLE
Since the automobile high-temperature pest extermination device of the present invention comprises a circulation fan device and a heating member within the treatment chamber and the heated air is circulated and distributed, in addition to efficient high-temperature treatment, as described in the Examples, by connecting a plurality of treatment chambers, thermal treatment of a large number of different types of to-be-treated automobiles can be efficiently performed and adaptation to mass treatment and the size of the installation location becomes easy, whereby versatility is improved.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Thus, the present invention has high industrial applicability.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
REFERENCE SIGNS LIST	SECTION TITLE
10automobile high-temperature pest extermination device20treatment chamber20Aplurality of connected treatment chambers20Lplurality of treatment chambers arranged in parallel20uunit21side wall part21afirst side wall part21bsecond side wall part21cthird side wall part21dfourth side wall part22inlet22aloading door part23outlet23adischarge door part25chamber interior temperature detection means30circulation fan device31housing member32suction part33discharge part35fan member40heating member41piping member45rectification member46rectification member wind direction restriction part47, 48rectification member wind direction auxiliary part49rectification member wind receiving surface50, 50a, 5b, 5cvehicle interior temperature detection means60heating temperature control means70centralized management partC, C1, C2, C3to-be-treated automobilethigh-temperature treatment start time	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[OBJECT]	SECTION SUBTITLE
To provide an automobile high-temperature pest extermination device which can efficiently exterminate pests by a high-temperature treatment without the use of a fumigation agent.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
[SOLVING MEANS]	SECTION SUBTITLE
A device for applying, for a predetermined interval, heated air which is heated to a pest extermination temperature to a to-be-treated automobile C which is housed in a freely accessible manner in a treatment chamber 20 to exterminate pests inside the automobile includes a circulation fan device 30 arranged in the treatment chamber, a suction part 32 of which is oriented toward the inside of the treatment chamber, a heating member 40 mounted in a discharge part 33 of the circulation fan device, and a rectification member 45 for adjusting the flow direction of the heated air delivered into the chamber via the heating member.	REPHRASED CLAIM