VEHICLE SPEAKER DISPOSITION STRUCTURE	PATENT TITLE
TECHNICAL FIELD	SECTION TITLE
The present invention relates to a structure for disposing a speaker in a vehicle.	TECHNICAL FIELD
BACKGROUND	SECTION TITLE
Patent Document 1 suggests a structure of a vehicle body whose fender is provided therein with an acoustic transducer as a speaker.	REFERENCE
In Patent Document 1, the acoustic transducer is disposed in the fender located near a front corner of a vehicle cabin, and sound is reproduced from the vicinity of the front corner toward the vehicle cabin.	REFERENCE
By employing such a structure, an improvement in the reproduction efficiency, of high-quality sound including a low range, with a wide range of directivity in a plan view, is expected.	REFERENCE_ADVANTAGE
CITATION LIST	SECTION TITLE
PATENT DOCUMENT	SECTION TITLE
PATENT DOCUMENT 1: Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication (Japanese Translation of PCT Application) No. 2015-530952	REFERENCE
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION	SECTION TITLE
TECHNICAL PROBLEM	SECTION TITLE
In Patent Document 1, however, the speaker is disposed in the fender, which is a non-rigid body member.	REFERENCE
There is a fear in such a structure that the vibration of the sound reproduced by the speaker may cause noise from the vehicle body, even if the speaker is jointed to the frame of the fender.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
The technique disclosed herein is made in view of the problem.	JURIDICAL TEMPLATE
It is an objective of the present disclosure to provide a structure for disposing a speaker in a vehicle, while achieving both an improvement in the reproduction efficiency of the speaker and a reduction in the noise generated in a vehicle body due to sound reproduced from the speaker.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEM	SECTION TITLE
The present disclosure is directed to a structure for arranging a speaker in a vehicle.	REPHRASED CLAIM
The structure includes: a hinge pillar including a hinge pillar inner and a hinge pillar outer that form a closed cross-section extending vertically;	REPHRASED CLAIM
and a speaker box fixed to the hinge pillar and configured to hold and house a speaker therein.	REPHRASED CLAIM
According to this configuration, the hinge pillar is located at the front corner of a vehicle cabin.	EMBODIMENT
Thus, the joining of the speaker box to the hinge pillar allows for arrangement of the speaker at the front corner of the vehicle cabin, and efficient transmission of the sound generated by the speaker from the corner toward the vehicle cabin.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In addition, since the speaker box that holds and houses the speaker inside is fixed to the rigid hinge pillar, the abnormal noise according to the sound generated by the speaker effectively decreases.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Therefore, an improvement in the reproduction efficiency of the speaker and a reduction in the abnormal noise of the vehicle generated by the speaker are both achievable.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
As one aspect of the present disclosure, an opening may be open in a transverse direction of the vehicle in the hinge pillar inner.	REPHRASED CLAIM
The speaker box may include a box part formed of a sheet metal member including a bottom and side walls that form a housing space housing the speaker, together with the bottom.	REPHRASED CLAIM
The box part may be arranged in the opening, with the bottom located in the closed cross-section and with the housing space open inside a vehicle cabin, and may be joined to an edge of the opening.	REPHRASED CLAIM
According to this configuration, the box part is joined to the edge of the opening of the hinge pillar inner, and is the sheet metal member.	EMBODIMENT
The hinge pillar is provided with the opening, whose edge is jointed to the speaker box.	EMBODIMENT
This also allows the hinge pillar to exhibit a sufficient strength.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
The advantages described above, that is, an improvement in the reproduction efficiency of the speaker and a reduction in the abnormal noise of the vehicle generated by the speaker are both more achievable.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
The term "sheet metal member" is here not intended to limit the processing method, and represents a general metal member to be joined to the vehicle body.	DEFINITION
As one aspect of the present disclosure, a lower part of the hinge pillar inner may include a rear edge extending rearward toward a bottom.	REPHRASED CLAIM
The box part may be arranged at the lower part of the hinge pillar inner.	REPHRASED CLAIM
A lower rear of the box part may be bulged more rearward than an upper rear of the box part along a lower rear edge of the hinge pillar inner.	REPHRASED CLAIM
The lower rear may include an inclined surface between a vehicle outer side surface being the bottom of the box part and a lower surface being a part of the side walls of the box part.	REPHRASED CLAIM
According to this configuration, in the electrodeposition process, the electrodeposition liquid, which has flowed into the space inside the box part, is efficiently discharged, without retaining the electrodeposition liquid particularly at the lower rear (particularly, the inclined surface of the lower rear).	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Reliable rust-proofing treatment is thus possible.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
This allows for joining of the speaker box to the hinge pillar in the assembly process of the vehicle body.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In addition, assume that an inner box part is arranged more inward than the box part in the vehicle after the electrodeposition process.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
This arrangement seals the inside of the speaker box to more efficiently transmit the sound generated by the speaker toward the vehicle cabin.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
As one aspect of the present disclosure, an angle between the lower surface and the vehicle outer side surface at the lower rear of the box part may be set to be obtuse.	REPHRASED CLAIM
According to this configuration, in the electrodeposition process, the electrodeposition liquid, which has flowed into the space inside the box part, is efficiently discharged, without retaining the electrodeposition liquid particularly at the lower rear.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
This allows for joining of the speaker box to the hinge pillar in the assembly process of the vehicle body.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
As one aspect of the present disclosure, the hinge pillar may include a hinge pillar reinforcement.	REPHRASED CLAIM
The hinge pillar reinforcement may be coupled to the box part and to a side sill which is fixed to a lower part of the hinge pillar and extends in the longitudinal direction of the vehicle.	REPHRASED CLAIM
According to this configuration, the hinge pillar reinforcement is coupled to the hinge pillar inner not directly but via the box part, which is the sheet metal member, to allow the box part to function as a part of the hinge pillar reinforcement.	EMBODIMENT
This configuration reduces the size (i.e. simplifies the shape) of the hinge pillar reinforcement itself and reduces the weight of the hinge pillar reinforcement, while providing a sufficient strength at the joint between the hinge pillar and the side sill.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
ADVANTAGES OF THE INVENTION	SECTION TITLE
The technique disclosed herein achieves both an improvement in the reproduction efficiency of the speaker and a reduction in the noise caused in the vehicle body by the sound generated by the speaker.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS	SECTION TITLE
[FIG. 1A] FIG. 1A is a perspective view of a speaker disposition structure according to an embodiment of the present disclosure and the periphery, as viewed from a vehicle cabin.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[FIG. 1B] FIG. 1B is a perspective view of a speaker disposition structure according to an embodiment of the present disclosure and the periphery, as viewed from a vehicle cabin.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[FIG. 2] FIG. 2 illustrates the speaker disposition structure according to the embodiment and the periphery, as viewed from the outside in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[FIG. 3] FIG. 3 corresponds to FIG. 2 illustrating a state with a hinge pillar reinforcement detached.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[FIG. 4] FIG. 4 is an enlarged cross-sectional view taken along line A-A in FIG. 2.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[FIG. 5] FIG. 5 is an enlarged cross-sectional view taken along line B-B in FIG. 2.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[FIG. 6] FIG. 6 is an enlarged cross-sectional view taken along line C-C in FIG. 2.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[FIG. 7] FIG. 7 is an enlarged cross-sectional view taken along line D-D in FIG. 2.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[FIG. 8] FIG. 8 is an enlarged cross-sectional view taken along line E-E in FIG. 2.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENT	SECTION TITLE
Now, an embodiment of a speaker disposition structure according to the present disclosure will be described in detail with reference to the drawings.	JURIDICAL TEMPLATE
Note that the speaker disposition structure described below is a mere example.	JURIDICAL TEMPLATE
FIG. 1A is a perspective view of a speaker disposition structure according to an embodiment of the present disclosure and the periphery of the structure, as viewed from a vehicle cabin.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIG. 1B illustrates a main part in detail, with an inner box part detached from the structure in FIG.1A.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIG. 2 illustrates the speaker disposition structure according to the embodiment and the periphery of the structure, as viewed from the outside in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIG. 3 corresponds to FIG. 2 illustrating a state with a hinge pillar reinforcement detached.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIG. 4 is an enlarged cross-sectional view taken along line A-A in FIG. 2.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIG. 5 is an enlarged cross-sectional view taken along line B-B in FIG. 2.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIG. 6 is an enlarged cross-sectional view taken along line C-C in FIG. 2.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIG. 7 is an enlarged cross-sectional view taken along line D-D in FIG. 2.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIG. 8 is an enlarged cross-sectional view taken along line E-E in FIG. 2.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIGS. 2 and 3 illustrate a state with a hinge pillar outer detached.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In the drawings, arrow F indicates the front of the vehicle, arrow IN indicates the inner side in the transverse direction of the vehicle (i.e., the vehicle interior), and arrow OUT indicates the outer side in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Speaker disposition structures according to the present embodiment are provided on both the right and left of the vehicle to be symmetric bilaterally.	EMBODIMENT
Unless particularly mentioned, the embodiment will be described based on the speaker disposition structure on the left of the vehicle and the peripheral structure.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIG. 1B, a hinge pillar 5 for mounting a front door (not shown) is disposed at a front corner 100c of a vehicle cabin 100.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Coupled to the lower end of the hinge pillar 5 is the front end of a side sill 6 extending in the longitudinal direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
On each side of the vehicle, the hinge pillar 5 constitutes the lower front edge of a door opening 105 and the side sill 6 constitutes the lower edge of the door opening 105.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The hinge pillar 5 constitutes the front corner 100c of the vehicle cabin 100, together with a dash panel 101 extending in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In FIG. 1A, a reference numeral 102 denotes a toe board, and a reference numeral 103 denotes a floor panel.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In FIGS. 1A and 3, a reference numeral 104 denotes a wheel apron reinforcement.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In FIGS. 1A, 1B, and 7, a reference numeral 107 denotes a dash gusset as a brace member.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIGS. 2 and 4 to 8, the hinge pillar 5 mainly includes a hinge pillar inner 51, a hinge pillar outer 52, and a hinge pillar reinforcement 56 as a reinforcement member (see particularly, FIGS. 2, 4 and 7).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The hinge pillar inner 51 extends vertically at the inner side in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The hinge pillar outer 52 extends vertically at the outer side in the transverse direction of the vehicle, and has a substantially hat-like cross-section raised outward in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The hinge pillar reinforcement 56 (in particular, see FIGS. 2, 4, and 7) is interposed between the hinge pillar inner 51 and the hinge pillar outer 52 in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The front and rear ends of the hinge pillar inner 51 and the hinge pillar outer 52 are joined together to form a closed cross-section 5s (see FIGS. 4 and 7) extending vertically.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
All the hinge pillar inner 51, hinge pillar outer 52, and hinge pillar reinforcement 56 of the hinge pillar 5 are sheet metal members as rigid body members.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As described above, the hinge pillar 5 includes, inside, the closed cross-section 5s extending vertically.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Accordingly, the hinge pillar 5 has a relatively high rigidity to receive an impact load such as a side impact load transmitted through the front door and transmit the impact load to the side sill 6.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In addition, the hinge pillar 5 supports the front door (not shown) arranged corresponding to the door opening 105, while allowing the front door to open and close.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
More specifically, the front end of the front door (not shown) is pivotally attached to the upper and lower parts of the hinge pillar 5 via hinges (not shown).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The upper and lower sides of the hinge pillar outer 52 are provided with hinge pivots 54 (54a and 54b) raised, like pedestals, outward in the transverse direction of the vehicle, in relation to the periphery of the upper and lower sides.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIGS. 1A to 4, the hinge pillar inner 51 has an inner wall 510 of the hinge pillar, which forms the closed cross-section 5s from the vehicle cabin 100.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIGS. 1A, 1B, and 3, a rear edge 51r is formed as the lower part of the inner wall 510 of the hinge pillar, that is, the joint (i.e., the edge) between the inner wall 510 and the side sill 6 to be gradually bulged rearward toward the bottom so that the lower part of the inner wall 510 is longitudinally longer than the upper part of the inner wall 510.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
An opening 53 is formed in the lower part of such an inner wall 510 of the hinge pillar.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIG. 4, the opening 53 penetrates the inner wall 510 of the hinge pillar in the transverse direction (i.e., along the thickness) of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In the opening 53, the closed cross-section 5s of the hinge pillar 5 is open toward the vehicle cabin 100.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As will be described later, the lower end of the opening 53 is defined by (upper end flanges 61a and 62a, which will be described later, of) the side sill 6.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Specifically, the inner wall 510 of the hinge pillar is cut out in the region extending upward from the lower end to correspond to the opening 53.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The inner wall 510 is formed like an opening with no lower end in the region corresponding to the opening 53 (see FIG. 4).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIGS. 1B and 3, in a front view (as viewed from a side of the vehicle), such an opening 53 has a substantially rectangular shape, whose vertical length is longer than the longitudinal length.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
However, the lower rear of the opening 53 is bulged more rearward than the upper rear to correspond to the shape of the rear edge 51r of the hinge pillar inner 51.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIGS. 1A, 4, and 5, the side sill 6 is arranged outside the floor panel 103 in the transverse direction of the vehicle, and mainly includes a side sill inner 61 and a side sill outer 62.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The side sill inner 61 has a substantially hat-like cross-section extending longitudinally at the inner side in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The side sill outer 62 has a substantially hat-like cross-section extending longitudinally at the outer side in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Specifically, as shown in FIGS. 1A, 4, and 5, the side sill inner 61 includes an upper end flange 61a, an upper surface (shoulder) 61b, an inner surface 61c in the transverse direction of the vehicle, a lower surface 61d, and a lower end flange 61e, in this order from top to bottom.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The upper surface 61b extends substantially horizontally inward in the transverse direction of the vehicle, from the lower end of the upper end flange 61a.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The inner surface 61c extends downward from the inner end of the upper surface 61b.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The lower surface 61d extends substantially horizontally outward in the transverse direction of the vehicle, from the lower end of the inner surface 61c.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The lower end flange 61e extends downward from the outer end of the lower surface 61d.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
On the other hand, as shown in FIGS. 4 and 5, the side sill outer 62 includes an upper end flange 62a, an upper surface (shoulder) 62b, an outer surface 62c in the transverse direction of the vehicle, a lower surface 62d, and a lower end flange 62e, in this order from top to bottom.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The upper surface 62b extends substantially horizontally outward in the transverse direction of the vehicle, from the lower end of the upper end flange 62a.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The outer surface 62c extends downward from the outer end of the upper surface 62b.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The lower surface 62d extends substantially horizontally inward in the transverse direction, from the lower end of the outer surface 62c.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The lower end flange 62e extends downward from the inner end of the lower surface 62d.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIGS. 4 to 6, the upper end flange 61a of the side sill inner 61 and the upper end flange 62a of the side sill outer 62 are joined to a lower end flange 13a of an outer box part 11, which will be described later, to sandwich the lower end flange 13a from both the sides in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
At the same time, the lower end flange 61e of the side sill inner 61 and the lower end flange 62e of the side sill outer 62 are joined together to form a closed cross-section 6s extending along the longitudinal direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIGS. 1A and 1B to 8, the speaker disposition structure 1 according to this embodiment includes a speaker box 10 that holds and houses a speaker (not shown).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The speaker box 10 is joined to the hinge pillar 5 including the hinge pillar inner 51 and the hinge pillar outer 52 that form the closed cross-section 5s extending vertically (see FIGS. 4 to 8).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The speaker box 10 is a box-like member that holds and houses the speaker inside.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In the configuration example described herein, as shown in FIGS. 4, 5, 7, and 8, the speaker box 10 is formed by joining two halved parts, namely an outer box part 11 and an inner box part 21, together into a box.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The outer box part 11 is a sheet metal member arranged in the closed cross-section 5s to cover the opening 53 from the closed cross-section 5s.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The inner box part 21 is a synthetic resin member disposed more inward than the outer box part 11 in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIGS. 4, 5, 7, and 8, the outer box part 11 includes an outer box body 12 and a flange 13 that form a hat-like cross-section raised outward in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The outer box body 12 includes a bottom, and side walls continuous with the bottom.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The bottom and the side walls form a housing space open inside the vehicle cabin.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The housing space formed by the outer box body 12 is a part of a speaker housing space 10s, which will be described later.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The outer box body 12 is arranged in the opening 53, with its bottom located in the closed cross-section 5s, and with the housing space open inside the vehicle cabin.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The inner box part 21 includes an inner box body 22 and a flange 23 that form a hat-like cross-section raised inward in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The flange 13 is formed along the peripheral edge of the outer box part 11.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The part of the flange 13 other than the lower end flange 13a is joined to an edge 55, which includes both the front and rear, and upper edges, of the opening 53 of the inner wall 510 of the hinge pillar from the vehicle cabin 100, for example, by spot welding (see FIGS. 1B, 4, 7, and 8).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
At the same time, the lower end flange 13a is joined to the upper end flange 61a of the side sill inner 61 and the upper end flange 62a of the side sill outer 62 to be sandwiched therebetween from both the sides in the transverse direction of the vehicle (see FIGS. 1B, 4, and 6).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The flange 23 is formed along the peripheral edge of the inner box part 21.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The part of the flange 23 other than a lower end flange 23a is joined to the part of the flange 13 of the outer box part 11 other than the lower end flange 13a from the vehicle cabin 100, for example, by spot welding (see FIGS. 1A, 4, 7, and 8).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
At the same time, the lower end flange 23a is joined to the upper end flange 61a of the side sill inner 61 from the vehicle cabin 100 (see FIGS. 4 to 6).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Accordingly, at the edge 55 of the opening 53, the outer and inner box parts 11 and 21 are arranged to face each other across the opening 53 in the transverse direction of the vehicle to form a box shape including the speaker housing space 10s inside (see FIGS. 4, 5, 7, and 8).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The vehicle body is however subjected to an electrodeposition coating process, with, out of the speaker box 10, only the outer box part 11 of the sheet metal member joined to the edge 55 of the opening 53 as described above.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Out of the speaker box 10, only outer box part 11 is subjected to rust-proofing treatment.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
On the other hand, the inner box part 21, which is the resin member, is joined to face the outer box part 11 across the opening 53 as described above, after a drying process subsequent to the electrodeposition coating process of the vehicle body.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As viewed from the side of the vehicle, each of the outer and inner box parts 11 and 21 has a substantially rectangular shape, whose vertical length is longer than the longitudinal length, to correspond to the shape of the opening 53 in a front view (i.e., as viewed from the side of the vehicle), while a lower rear 10a is bulged more rearward than an upper rear 10b. (See FIG. 3.)	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Now, the outer box body 12 will be described in detail.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIGS. 3 to 5, 7, and 8, the outer box body 12 includes an outer wall 12a in the transverse direction of the vehicle, an upper wall 12b, a lower wall 12c, a front wall 12d, and a rear wall 12e.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The upper wall 12b, the lower wall 12c, the front wall 12d, and the rear wall 12e are the upper, lower, front, and rear surfaces of the outer box body 12.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIGS. 3 to 5, the outer box part 11 has an inclined corner 15 as an inclined surface, at a part of the corner between the outer wall 12a and the lower wall 12c.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The part includes at least the lower rear 10a in the longitudinal direction (i.e., the part of the corner other than the front in the longitudinal direction in this example).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIGS. 4 and 5, this inclined corner 15 is inclined from a lower end 12aa of the outer wall 12a toward an outer end 12ca of the lower wall 12c so that the inclined corner 15 extends downward toward the inside in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As viewed from front to rear of the vehicle, the outer wall 12a extends vertically, whereas the lower wall 12c extends while gently inclining downward toward the inside in the transverse direction of the vehicle. (See FIG. 4).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Accordingly, at least the lower rear 10a of the outer box part 11 in the longitudinal direction, the angle α (see FIG. 4) between the lower wall 12c and the outer wall 12a is set to be obtuse.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The hinge pillar outer 52 and the hinge pillar reinforcement 56 are coupled together to the outer box part 11 and the side sill 6.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Specifically, as shown in FIGS. 4 and 5, the hinge pillar outer 52 is joined to the outer wall 12a of the outer box body 12 from the outside in the transverse direction of the vehicle, and to the outer surface 62c of the side sill outer 62 from the outside in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIGS. 2, 4, and 7, the lower hinge pivot 54b described above is provided at a part of the hinge pillar outer 52 between the joint with the outer box part 11 and the joint with the side sill outer 62 in the vertical direction.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Similarly, as shown in FIGS. 2 and 4 to 7, the hinge pillar reinforcement 56 is joined to the outer wall 12a of the outer box body 12 in a position more inward than the hinge pillar outer 52 in the transverse direction of the vehicle, from the outside in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
At the same time, the hinge pillar reinforcement 56 is joined to the outer surface 62c of the side sill outer 62 from the outside in the transverse direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Accordingly, as viewed from front to rear of the vehicle, the hinge pillar reinforcement 56, the outer box part 11, and the side sill outer 62 enclose the closed cross-section 56s (See FIGS. 4 to 6.)	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The hinge pillar reinforcement 56 overlaps and abuts on the hinge pillar outer 52 including the lower hinge pivot 54b provided in the hinge pillar outer 52, from the inside in the transverse direction of the vehicle throughout the substantially entire vertical length, to reinforce the lower hinge pivot 54b.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In the speaker disposition structure 1 in the vehicle according to this embodiment, the speaker box 10 is fixed to the hinge pillar 5.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The speaker box 10 holds and houses the speaker (not shown).	EMBODIMENT
The hinge pillar 5 includes the hinge pillar inner 51 and the hinge pillar outer 52 that form the closed cross-section 5s extending vertically. (See FIGS. 1A and 1B to 8.)	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
According to this configuration, the hinge pillar 5 is located at the front corner 100c of the vehicle cabin 100.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Thus, the joining of the speaker box 10 to the hinge pillar 5 allows for arrangement of the speaker at the front corner 100c, and efficient transmission of the sound generated by the speaker toward the vehicle cabin.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In addition, since the speaker box 10 that holds and houses the speaker is joined to the rigid hinge pillar 5, the abnormal noise effectively decreases.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Therefore, an improvement in the reproduction efficiency of the speaker and a reduction in the abnormal noise of the vehicle generated by the speaker can both be achieved.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In one embodiment, the opening 53 is open in the transverse direction of the vehicle in the hinge pillar inner 51 (see FIGS. 2 to 5, 7, and 8).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The speaker box 10 includes the outer box part 11 (see FIGS. 1B, 3, and 4), which is the sheet metal member including the bottom, and the side walls that form the space housing the speaker, together with the bottom.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The outer box part 11 is arranged in the opening 53, with the bottom located in the closed cross-section 5s and with the housing space open inside the vehicle cabin.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
At the same time, the outer box part 11 is joined to the edge 55 of the opening 53. (See FIGS. 1B to 8.)	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
According to this configuration, the outer box part 11 (a part of the speaker box 10) is joined to the edge 55 of the opening 53 of the hinge pillar inner 51, and is formed of the sheet metal member.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The joining of the speaker box 10 to the hinge pillar 5 allows the hinge pillar 5 to exhibit a sufficient strength.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
The advantages described above, that is, an improvement in the reproduction efficiency of the speaker and a reduction in the abnormal noise of the vehicle generated by the speaker can both be achieved.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In one embodiment, the lower part of the hinge pillar inner 51 serves as the rear edge 51r, which extends downward toward the rear. (See FIGS. 1A and 1B to 3.)	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The outer box part 11 is arranged below the lower part of the hinge pillar inner 51. (See FIGS. 1A and 1B to 3.)	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The lower rear 10a of the outer box part 11 is bulged more rearward than the upper rear 10b of the outer box part 11 along the rear edge 51r, which is the lower part of the hinge pillar inner plate 51. (See FIGS. 1A and 1B to 3.)	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The lower rear 10a includes the inclined corner 15 between the outer wall (i.e., the outer side surface) 12a and the lower wall (i.e., the lower surface) 12c of the outer box part 11. (See FIGS. 3 to 5.)	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
According to this configuration, the rear edge 51r, which is the lower part of the hinge pillar inner plate 51, extends rearward toward the bottom.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Taking advantage of this shape, the lower rear 10a of the outer box part 11 is bulged rearward, thereby increasing the capacity of the speaker box 10.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
This improves the reproduction efficiency of the speaker.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
The lower rear 10a of the outer box part 11 is bulged rearward.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Even such a configuration efficiently discharges electrodeposition liquid, which has flowed into a space 11s inside the outer box part 11, outside the outer box part 11, without retaining the electrodeposition liquid in the lower rear 10a (particularly, the inclined corner 15 of the lower rear 10a).	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Reliable rust-proofing treatment is thus possible.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
This allows for joining of the speaker box to the hinge pillar in the assembly process of the vehicle body.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In addition, the inner box part 21 arranged after the electrodeposition process seals the inside of the speaker box 10 to more efficiently transmit the sound generated by the speaker toward the vehicle cabin 100.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Here, the electrodeposition process (or the electrodeposition coating process) of the vehicle body is generally performed, while moving the vehicle body forward along the arch-like trajectory raised downward.	EMBODIMENT
This is for immersing the entire vehicle body in the electrodeposition liquid at the lowest point of the trajectory, when the vehicle body passes through a storage tank storing the electrodeposition liquid.	EMBODIMENT
Specifically, the electrodeposition process is performed as follows (not shown in the figures).	EMBODIMENT
The vehicle body is immersed into the electrodeposition liquid stored in the storage tank generally from front to rear, with the front positioned lower than the rear.	EMBODIMENT
After the entire vehicle body has been immersed into the electrodeposition liquid, the vehicle body is picked up from the electrodeposition liquid generally from front to rear, with the front positioned higher than the rear.	EMBODIMENT
This electrodeposition process is performed as described above, with the resin inner box part 21 detached, which requires no electrodeposition process.	EMBODIMENT
The inner box part 21 is attached after the electrodeposition process.	EMBODIMENT
Now, when the vehicle body is picked up from the electrodeposition liquid, with the front positioned higher than the rear, the outer box part 11 is also inclined, with the front positioned higher than the rear in accordance with the vehicle body inclined with the front positioned higher than the rear.	EMBODIMENT
Accordingly, the electrodeposition liquid, which has flowed inside the outer box part 11, tends to remain (i.e., liquid stagnation) at the lower rear 10a with the bulged rear in the space 11s inside the outer box part 11.	EMBODIMENT
By contrast, in this embodiment, the lower rear 10a includes the inclined corner 15, which is inclined inward in the transverse direction of the vehicle toward the bottom (see FIG. 5.).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
This reliably discharges the electrodeposition liquid without retaining the liquid even at the lower rear 10a.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In short, since the speaker box 10 needs to have sealing properties in view of improving the reproduction efficiency of the sound including the low range, the drainage performance tends to deteriorate.	INVENTION_PROBLEM
A contradictory problem then arises: it becomes difficult for the outer box part 11 formed of the sheet metal member to reliably discharge the electrodeposition liquid, which has flowed into the space 11s inside the outer box part 11, in view of reliably performing the rust-proofing treatment into the inner wall of the outer box part 11.	INVENTION_PROBLEM
As described above, the inclined corner 15 is provided at the lower rear 10a of the outer box part 11, which exhibits a particularly low drainage performance.	INVENTION_PROBLEM
This configuration allows the outer box part 11 to have a shape easily exhibiting sealing properties and to reliably discharge the electrodeposition liquid.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In one embodiment, the angle α between the lower wall (i.e., the lower surface) 12c and the outer wall (i.e., the outer side surface) 12a at the lower rear 10a of the outer box part 11 is set to be obtuse. (See FIG. 4.)	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
According to this configuration, in the electrodeposition process, the electrodeposition liquid, which has flowed into the space 11s inside the outer box part 11, is efficiently discharged outside the outer box part 11, without retaining the electrodeposition liquid particularly at the lower wall 12c of the lower rear 10a.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
This allows for joining of the speaker box to the hinge pillar in the assembly process of the vehicle body.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In one embodiment, the hinge pillar 5 includes the hinge pillar reinforcement 56, which is coupled to the outer box part 11 and the side sill 6 (see FIGS. 2 and 4 to 7).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The side sill 6 is fixed to the lower part of the hinge pillar 5 and extends in the longitudinal direction of the vehicle.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
According to this configuration, the hinge pillar reinforcement 56 is coupled to the hinge pillar inner 51 not directly but via the outer box part 11, which is the sheet metal member, to allow the outer box part 11 to function as a part of the hinge pillar reinforcement 56.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
This configuration reduces the size (i.e. simplifies the shape) of the hinge pillar reinforcement 56 itself and reduces the weight of the hinge pillar reinforcement 56, while providing a sufficient strength at the joint between the hinge pillar 5 and the side sill 6.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
To be specific, if a side impact load is applied to the front door (not shown), the hinge pillar 5, which is joined to the front end of the front door via the door hinges (not shown), receives the side impact load, not to press the front door into the vehicle cabin 100.	EMBODIMENT
At this time, the hinge pillar 5 receives the side impact load, together with the side sill 6 joined to the lower part of the hinge pillar 5 not to be pressed inside the vehicle cabin 100, together with the front door.	EMBODIMENT
As in this embodiment, the hinge pillar reinforcement 56 is coupled to the side sill 6 and the outer box part 11 formed of the sheet metal member.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
This increases the strength of the side sill 6 supporting the hinge pillar 5 at side collision.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In particular, the outer surface 62c of the side sill outer 62 and the outer wall 12a of the outer box part 11 are coupled together by the hinge pillar reinforcement 56.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
This configuration allows the side sill outer 62, the outer box part 11, and the hinge pillar reinforcement 56 to enclose and define the closed cross-section 56s (see FIGS. 4 to 6).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
This effectively increases the strength of the joint between the hinge pillar 5 and the side sill 6.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
That is, the hinge pillar reinforcement 56 reliably reduces deformation such as twisting of the side sill 6 at side collision.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In addition, the hinge pillar reinforcement 56 is coupled to the hinge pillar inner 51 via the outer box part 11, thereby simplifying the shape of the hinge pillar reinforcement 56 itself and reducing the weight of the hinge pillar reinforcement 56, as compared to the case where the hinge pillar inner 51 is coupled to the hinge pillar inner 51 directly.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
The technology disclosed herein is not limited to the configurations according to the embodiments described above, and may be implemented in various embodiments.	JURIDICAL TEMPLATE
DESCRIPTION OF REFERENCE CHARACTERS	SECTION TITLE
1 Arrangement Structure of Speaker5 Hinge Pillar5s Closed Cross-Section10 Speaker Box10a Lower Rear10b Upper Rear11 Outer Box Part12a Outer Wall in Transverse Direction of Vehicle (Vehicle Outer Side Surface)12aa Lower End of Outer Wall (Lower End of Vehicle Outer Side Surface)12c Lower Wall (Lower Surface)12ca Outer End of Lower Wall in Transverse Direction of Vehicle (Outer End of Lower Surface in Transverse Direction of Vehicle)15 Inclined Corner21 Inner Box Part51 Hinge Pillar Inner52 Hinge Pillar Outer53 Opening55 Edge of Opening51 Hinge Pillar Inner51r Rear Edge56 Hinge Pillar Reinforcementα Angle between Lower Wall and Outer Wall in Transverse Direction of Vehicle (Angle between Lower Surface and Vehicle Outer Side Surface)	FIGURE DESCRIPTION