CONTROL SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AN ELECTRO-HYDRAULIC SERVO-ACTUATOR, IN PARTICULAR OF A TURBOPROPELLER ENGINE	PATENT TITLE
The present solution relates to a control system and method for an electro-hydraulic servo-actuator, in particular of a turbopropeller (or turboprop) engine of an aircraft, to which the following disclosure will make explicit reference, without this implying any loss of generality.	TECHNICAL FIELD
Figure 1 shows a perspective view of an exemplary aircraft 1, provided with a turbopropeller engine 2;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
only a propeller assembly 3 of the turbopropeller engine 2 is visible in the same Figure 1.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The aircraft 1 includes an airframe 4 defining a cockpit 5;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
a single operator-manipulated input device (a power, or throttle, lever), 6, and an instrument control panel 7 having a display 8 are provided within the cockpit 5.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The propeller assembly 3 comprises a hub 9 and a plurality of blades 10, extending outwardly from the hub 9.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
A gas turbine of the turbopropeller engine 2 (here not shown) generates and transmits power to drive rotation of the propeller assembly 3, thus generating thrust for the aircraft 1.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As schematically shown in Figure 2, the gas turbine of the turbopropeller engine 2, here denoted with 11, generally comprises: an axial/centrifugal compressor 12, coupled to an air intake 13;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
a high-pressure turbine 14, so called "gas generator", coupled to the axial/centrifugal compressor 12 via a gas generator shaft 15;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
anda low-pressure turbine 16, so called "power turbine", mechanically decoupled from the gas generator shaft 15 and driven by hot gas expansion.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The propeller assembly 3 is coupled to the gas turbine engine 11 via a propeller shaft 17 and a gearbox 18.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
More specifically, the gearbox 18 can include a first gear 18a and a second gear 18b in mesh with the first gear 18a.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The first gear 18a can be connected to the propeller shaft 17, in turn coupled to the hub 9 of the propeller assembly 3, and the second gear 18b can be connected to a power turbine shaft 17', in turn coupled to the low-pressure turbine 16.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
During operation, the gearbox 18 can step-down a rotational speed of the power turbine shaft 17', so that a rotational speed of the propeller shaft 17 can be less than the rotational speed of the power turbine shaft 17'.	EMBODIMENT
An actuation assembly 19 is coupled to the propeller assembly 3, to determine the value of a variable pitch angle of the propeller blades 11.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The turbopropeller engine 2 is managed by an electronic control unit 20 (shown schematically in Figure 2), that includes an electronic processing unit (e.g. a microprocessor, a microcontroller, or similar processing unit) provided with a non-volatile memory storing suitable software instructions, in order to implement an engine control strategy to meet input power requirements, originated from the operator-manipulated power lever 6.	EMBODIMENT
The electronic control unit 20 may define one or more of a full authority digital engine controller (FADEC), an engine control unit (ECU), an electronic engine control (EEC), a propeller electronic control unit (PEC).	EMBODIMENT
The turbopropeller engine 2 further comprises: a temperature sensor 22, which is generally arranged within the air intake 13, in order to sense the temperature of engine intake air (that, during operation, flows over the same temperature sensor 22), and is configured to provide a measure of a sensed temperature T1sens.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The sensed temperature T1sens measured by the temperature sensor 22 is relevant to control of the engine operation by the electronic control unit 20;	EMBODIMENT
in particular, together with a compressor speed Ng, the sensed temperature T1sens establishes the position of a Variable Stator Vane (VSV) device coupled to the compressor 12.	EMBODIMENT
In a known manner, this device has the purpose of "partializing" the air flow to the compressor 12, so as to avoid a stall condition.	REFERENCE_ADVANTAGE
Figure 3 schematically shows the structure and operation of the VSV device, here denoted with 25.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
An electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26, provided with a torque motor, moves a piston 27 back and forth;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
a mechanical linkage 28 transforms the rectilinear motion of the piston 27 into a circular motion, thereby moving a series of blades 29 of a beta angle β into stator vanes 30 of the compressor 12.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The rotation of blades 29, deviates the flow of air in the compressor 12, thus allowing to avoid an excess of air at low speed that would lead to stall of the compressor 12.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26 is electrically controlled by the electronic control unit 20, in particular by the FADEC, which calculates an angular position reference (i.e. the reference value of the beta angle β) for the control action, according to a corrected compressor speed Ngr.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In particular, this corrected compressor speed Ngr is the compressor speed Ng multiplied by a parameter that depends on an inlet temperature T2 (that is proportional to the sensed temperature T1sens measured by temperature sensor 22) based on the following expressions: Ngr=Ngθ θ=T2Kelvin288.15 T2≅kT1 wherein 288.5K (i.e. 15°C) is the temperature at ISA (International Standard Atmosphere) condition at sea level.	EMBODIMENT
Manufacturers of electro-hydraulic servo-actuators generally provide the nominal response characteristics curves of the actuators in terms of actuator speed versus driving current (where the actuator speed is a function of the driving, or command, current supplied to the actuator).	EMBODIMENT
In most practical applications, the actuator slew-rate (i.e. the maximum rate of change per unit of time) has to be limited, in order not to overcome those limits that could compromise or impair correct operation.	REFERENCE_ADVANTAGE
In the practical example of the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26 of the VSV device 25, limiting the speed of the actuator is all the more important, considering that the control fluid for the actuator is the engine fuel.	EMBODIMENT
Indeed, as schematically shown in Figure 4, the same fuel coming from a fuel tank, here not shown, and provided by a fuel pump 30, is supplied to both a fuel metering valve FMV 32, that controls fuel supply to the turbopropeller engine 2, and to the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26, that controls the VSV device 25.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in the same Figure 4, a return path 33 is also provided, for the fuel return flow.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
During transients, an excessive speed of the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26 may steer too much fuel towards the same actuator, thereby causing a transient pressure drop and possibly impairing the correct operation of the turbopropeller engine 2.	INVENTION_PROBLEM
Known solutions for controlling operation of electro-hydraulic servo-actuators envisage a limitation of the driving current supplied to the actuators at fixed maximum and minimum values, that are set to assure that the actuator speed does not overcome upper and lower limit values (imposed by design, as defined by the manufacturer).	REFERENCE
Figure 5 shows a known control system, denoted with 40, for an electro-hydraulic servo-actuator, here denoted with 41, generally implementing a closed loop control of the position of the actuator 41 based on a reference position Posref and a measured position Posmeas (in the example, the measured position Posmeas is provided by a position sensor 42, e.g. an inductive sensor, such as a LVDT - Linear Variable Displacement Transducer).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The control system 40 comprises:	EMBODIMENT
a first adder block 44, receiving at a first (positive, or summation) input the reference position Posref and at a second (negative, or subtraction) input the measured position Posmeas, as a feedback, measured by the position sensor 42, and providing at the output a position error ep, as a function of the subtraction between the reference position Posref and the measured position Posmeas;	EMBODIMENT
anda controller 45, e.g. of the PID (Proportional Integral Derivative) type, receiving at its input the position error ep and generating at its output, based on a regulation scheme, a control quantity Ic, for example an electrical current, designed to control actuation of the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 41.	EMBODIMENT
The control system 40 further comprises a saturation block 46, interposed between the controller 45 and the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 41, configured to receive the control quantity Ic and provide a saturation thereof to maximum and minimum values Max', Min', in case the same control quantity Ic overcomes the same maximum and minimum values Max', Min';	REPHRASED CLAIM
the saturation block 46 thus provides a driving quantity Id, in particular a driving current, for the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 41.	EMBODIMENT
Figure 6 shows the characteristic curve of the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 41;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
in particular, the nominal characteristic curve is shown with a solid line, while actual maximum and minimum characteristic curves, e.g. due to actuator ageing and other deterioration effects, are shown with dashed lines.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As clearly shown in this Figure 6, the maximum and minimum values Max', Min' of the saturation block 46 are set at values that are lower than the limit values of the driving current, denoted with Max and Min, defined by the nominal characteristic curve of the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 41 (and corresponding to actuator speed limits, denoted with SpeedMax and SpeedMin).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Indeed, these maximum and minimum values Max', Min' have to guarantee, in an open-loop, even in a worst case scenario, that the actuator speed limits, denoted with SpeedMax and SpeedMin are not overcome, during the actuator life and for all actuator operating conditions.	EMBODIMENT
In this respect, and considering the practical example of the VSV actuator (discussed above), aerodynamic loads on the blades 29 of the VSV device 25 may further deviate (in a substantially unpredictable manner) the actuator characteristic curve from the nominal characteristic curve, during actual operation of the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 41.	EMBODIMENT
A drawback of the discussed control system 40 is thus that of not allowing full exploitation of the capability of the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 41.	INVENTION_PROBLEM
Another known solution to limit the speed of an electro-hydraulic servo-actuator may envisage a mechanical limitation of the control fluid that is supplied to the same electro-hydraulic servo-actuator;	REFERENCE
however, this solution has a number of disadvantages, for example that of requiring heavy and complex hydraulic mechanisms, having a higher cost and entailing objective constructive difficulties.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
The aim of the present solution is to provide an improved control solution for an electro-hydraulic servo-actuator, allowing to overcome the above discussed drawbacks of known control systems.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
According to the present solution, a control system and a control method for an electro-hydraulic servo-actuator are therefore provided, as defined in the appended claims.	EMBODIMENT
For a better understanding of the present invention, preferred embodiments thereof are now described, purely as non-limiting examples, with reference to the attached drawings, wherein:	JURIDICAL TEMPLATE
Figure 1 is a perspective view of an aircraft provided with a turbopropeller engine;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Figure 2 is a schematic block diagram of the turbopropeller engine of the aircraft;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Figure 3 is a schematic diagram of a Variable Stator Vane (VSV) device of the turbopropeller engine;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Figure 4 is a schematic block diagram relating to fuel supply in the turbopropeller engine;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Figure 5 is a schematic block diagram of a known control system of an electro-hydraulic servo-actuator;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Figure 6 shows plots of characteristic curves of the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Figure 7 is a schematic block diagram of a control system of an electro-hydraulic servo-actuator, according to an embodiment of the present solution;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Figure 8 is a schematic block diagram of a rate-limitation stage in the control system of Figure 7;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Figures 9A-9B shows plots of electrical quantities relating to performance of the control system of Figure 7, compared to a known control system;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
and Figure 10 is a schematic block diagram of a rate-limitation stage in the control system of Figure 7, according to a different embodiment of the present solution.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As will be discussed in the following, an aspect of the present control solution envisages a closed loop control of the actuator slew rate (maximum operating speed), independently of the speed vs current characteristic curve;	EMBODIMENT
in particular, this closed loop control for the actuator speed envisages use of the actual actuator speed (evaluated as the derivative of a measured actuator position) in order to limit the rate of change of the actuator driving current, and therefore limit the maximum actuator speed.	EMBODIMENT
Figure 7 shows a control system, denoted with 50, according to a first embodiment of the present solution, exploiting the above discussed control solution, in order to provide a driving current to an electro-hydraulic servo-actuator, for example to the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26 of the VSV device 25 in the turbopropeller engine 2 (see also the above discussion).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The control system 50 includes, in a manner similar to what discussed before with reference to Figure 5:	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
a first adder block, here denoted with 54, receiving at a first (positive, or summation) input the reference position Posref and at a second (negative, or subtraction) input the measured position Posmeas, as a feedback, measured by a position sensor, here denoted with 52, e.g. an inductive position sensor, such as a LVDT transducer, and providing at the output a position error ep, as a function of the subtraction between the reference position Posref and the measured position Posmeas;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
a controller, here denoted with 55, e.g. of the PID (Proportional Integral Derivative) type, receiving at its input the position error ep and generating at its output, based on a regulation scheme, a control quantity Ic, for example an electrical current, designed to control actuation of the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
anda saturation block, here denoted with 56, interposed between the controller 55 and the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26, configured to receive the control quantity Ic and provide a saturation thereof to maximum and minimum values Max, Min, in case the same control quantity Ic overcomes the same maximum and minimum values Max, Min, thereby providing a driving quantity Id, in particular a driving current, for the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In the present solution, the maximum and minimum values Max, Min coincide with the limit values defined by the nominal characteristic curve of the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26, set by the manufacturer (see again Figure 6 and the associated discussion), and are not set to lower values for safety reasons, as in known control solutions.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Operation of the saturation block 56 is such as to limit the maximum (absolute) value of the actuator speed, by limiting the maximum (absolute) value for the driving quantity Id.	EMBODIMENT
As discussed above, however, this limitation may not be sufficient during transients, when, due to inertia effects, the instantaneous actuator speed may overcome the set maximum limits, notwithstanding the imposed driving current limitations.	INVENTION_PROBLEM
According to an aspect of the present solution, the control system 50 therefore further comprises:	REPHRASED CLAIM
a derivative block 57, coupled to the position sensor 52, to receive the measured position Posmeas, and configured to determine a measured actuator speed Speedmeas, as the derivative of the measured position Posmeas;	REPHRASED CLAIM
anda limitation stage 58, coupled to the derivative block 57 to receive the measured actuator speed Speedmeas and to the output of the saturation block 56 to receive the driving current Id, and configured to limit the rate of change of the driving current Id based on the measured actuator speed Speedmeas, thereby providing a rate-limited driving current Id' for controlling the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In more detail, and as shown in Figure 8, the limitation stage 58 comprises a determination block 59 implementing a look-up table 59a, to determine a maximum rate of change of the actuator current according to the actual actuator speed.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In particular, the look-up table 59a provides at the output a slew rate limit value dId/dt for limiting the rate of change of the driving current Id, corresponding to the value of the measured actuator speed Speedmeas received at the input;	EMBODIMENT
the values stored in the look-up table 59a (in particular, the matching between the values of the slew rate limit value dId/dt and the measured actuator speed Speedmeas are determined via experimental results, aimed at determining the slew rate limit values dId/dt that allow not to overcome the desired actuator speed limits, SpeedMax, SpeedMin.	EMBODIMENT
In the embodiment shown in Figure 8, the slew rate limit values dId/dt and the values of the measured actuator speed Speedmeas are linked by a linear inverse relationship, namely when the measured actuator speed Speedmeas increases, the slew rate limit value dId/dt decreases, and vice versa.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The limitation stage 58 further comprises a dynamic rate limiter 60, coupled to the determination block 59 to receive the determined slew rate limit value dId/dt, and to the output of the saturation block 56 to receive the driving current Id.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The dynamic rate limiter 60 is configured to limit the slew rate of the input signal (i.e. the driving current Id) based on the slew rate limit value dId/dt, thus providing the rate-limited driving current Id' for controlling the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The dynamic rate limiter 60 may be implemented in any known manner, here not discussed in detail, as will be clear for a skilled person.	JURIDICAL TEMPLATE
In particular, as shown in the same Figure 8, the slew rate limit value dId/dt determines the maximum ramp slope of the pattern of the driving current Id vs time;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
in other words, the rate of change of the driving current Id is not allowed to exceed the slew rate limit value dId/dt.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
It is to be noted that the slew rate limit value dId/dt is proportional to the actuator acceleration (since the driving current Id is proportional to the actuator speed);	EMBODIMENT
accordingly, the dynamic rate limiter 60 operates according to the actuator acceleration providing the rate-limited driving current Id' so that the actuator speed limits (SpeedMax, SpeedMin) are not overcome.	EMBODIMENT
In case the actuator speed increases, the acceleration command (i.e. the slew rate limit value dId/dt) decreases;	EMBODIMENT
this implements a preview control action that anticipates the speed reduction.	EMBODIMENT
The look-up table 59a is properly tuned to set the maximum rate of change of the actuator speed.	EMBODIMENT
Figures 9A-9B show simulation results relating to the performance of the discussed control action compared to known control solutions.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In particular, Figure 9A shows the plot of the driving current Id versus time, in the control system 50 according to the present solution (shown in continuous line) and in a known control system (shown in dashed line), where the above discussed control solution is not implemented (e.g. the control system 40 of Figure 5);	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Figure 9A clearly shows the rate-limitation of the driving current Id envisaged by the present control solution.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Figure 9B shows the plot of the actuator speed versus time, again showing with a continuous line the plot according to the present control solution and with a dashed line the plot according to the known control solution.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Figure 9B also shows the actuator speed limits, SpeedMax, SpeedMin.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Figure 9B clearly shows that the present control solution allows to avoid the actuator speed to overcome the actuator speed limits, SpeedMax, SpeedMin, contrary to the known control solution.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The advantages of the present solution are clear from the previous discussion.	JURIDICAL TEMPLATE
In any case, it is again underlined that the present solution provides an effective system to control operation of an electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26, properly limiting the maximum speed of the same actuator, i.e. the actuator slew rate.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Advantageously, the actuator speed is limited dynamically and independently of the nominal characteristic curve (speed vs driving current) of the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In particular, contrary to known electronic control solutions, the present control system 50 allows to fully exploit the capability of the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26;	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
contrary to known mechanical control solutions, the present control system 50 does not require complex and expensive control mechanisms.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Finally, it is clear that modifications and variations can be made to what is described and illustrated herein, without thereby departing from the scope of the present invention as defined in the appended claims.	JURIDICAL TEMPLATE
In particular, as shown in Figure 10, in a different embodiment of the limitation stage 58 of the control system 50, the same limitation stage 58 may comprise a second adder block, here denoted with 64, receiving at a first (positive, or summation) input the actuator speed limit SpeedMax (the absolute value thereof), and at a second (negative, or subtraction) input the measured actuator speed Speedmeas, and providing at the output a speed difference espeed, as a function of the subtraction between the actuator speed limit SpeedMax and the measured actuator speed Speedmeas.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The look-up table 59a in this case receives at the input the above speed difference espeed, and provides the slew rate limit value dId/dt based on the same speed difference espeed.	EMBODIMENT
In this case, the slew rate limit values dId/dt and the values of the speed difference espeed are linked by a linear direct relationship, at least up to a given value of the same speed difference espeed, namely when the speed difference espeed increases/decreases, the slew rate limit value dId/dt correspondingly increases/decreases.	EMBODIMENT
In other words, when the measured actuator speed Speedmeas is far from the actuator speed limit SpeedMax, the slew rate limit values dId/dt are higher;	EMBODIMENT
as the measured actuator speed Speedmeas approaches the actuator speed limit SpeedMax, the slew rate limit values dId/dt is decreased, so as to limit the actuator acceleration.	EMBODIMENT
In particular, also in this embodiment, the slew rate limit value dIdldt is supplied to the dynamic rate limiter 60, which also in this case is configured to limit the slew rate of the driving current Id based on the slew rate limit value dId/dt, to provide the rate-limited driving current Id' for controlling the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26.	EMBODIMENT
Moreover, it is underlined that, although the present disclosure has made explicit reference to control of the electro-hydraulic servo-actuator 26 of the VSV device 25 in the turbopropeller engine 2 of the aircraft 1, it is clear that the control system 50 may advantageously be employed for controlling any electro-hydraulic servo-actuator.	EMBODIMENT
In particular, use of the control system 50 is advantageous every time a first valve, e.g. a variable geometry (VG) valve, and a second, different, valve are to be controlled using a same control fluid, to limit the actuator speed of the first valve in order to avoid steering too much control fluid towards the same first valve and away from the second valve.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE