RAW MATERIAL PARTICLE SIZE DISTRIBUTION MEASURING DEVICE, PARTICLE SIZE DISTRIBUTION MEASURING METHOD, AND VOID RATIO MEASURING DEVICE	PATENT TITLE
Technical Field	SECTION TITLE
The present invention relates to a raw material particle size distribution measuring apparatus, to a particle size distribution measuring method, and to a porosity measuring apparatus for measuring the particle size distribution of a raw material used for a blast furnace etc.	TECHNICAL FIELD
Background Art	SECTION TITLE
In a production process in, for example, a blast furnace using raw materials such as minerals, ventilation in the furnace is one important indicator in the production process, and one of the factors determining the ventilation in the furnace is the particle size distributions of raw materials.	REFERENCE
Conventionally, regular sampling of a raw material and sieve analysis are used to know the particle size distribution of the raw material.	REFERENCE
However, since the sieve analysis is time consuming, it is difficult to reflect the results in real time in the operation of the blast furnace.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
There is therefore a need for a technique capable of obtaining the particle size distribution of a raw material conveyed to the blast furnace in real time.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In a production process in, for example, a blast furnace using raw materials such as minerals, ventilation in the furnace is one important indicator in the production process, and one of the factors determining the ventilation in the furnace is the particle size distributions of raw materials.	REFERENCE
Conventionally, regular sampling of a raw material and sieve analysis are used to know the particle size distribution of the raw material.	REFERENCE
However, since the sieve analysis is time consuming, it is difficult to reflect the results in real time in the operation of the blast furnace.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
There is therefore a need for a technique capable of obtaining the particle size distribution of a raw material conveyed to the blast furnace in real time.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Citation List	SECTION SUBTITLE
Patent Literature	SECTION SUBTITLE
PTL 1: Japanese Unexamined Patent Application Publication No. 2014-92494PTL 2: Japanese Unexamined Patent Application Publication No. 2015-124436	REFERENCE
Non Patent Literature	SECTION SUBTITLE
NPL 1: Takao Yamada and four others, "Distribution of Burden Materials and Gas Permeability in a Large Volume Blast Furnace," KAWASAKI STEEL GIHO Vol. 6 (1974) No. 1, p. 16-37	REFERENCE
Summary of Invention	SECTION TITLE
Technical Problem	SECTION SUBTITLE
With a measurement method disclosed in Patent Literature 1, the particle size distribution of a granular raw material can be measured in real time.	REFERENCE_ADVANTAGE
However, since a single camera or a single laser rangefinder is used, the accuracy of the measurement of the particle size distribution of the raw material is not sufficient on the small particle side because of limitations of the resolution of such a sensor.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
Since a small amount of fine powder can influence the ventilation in the blast furnace, there is a need for highly accurate measurement.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Patent Literature 2 discloses an apparatus for detecting materials to be charged.	REFERENCE
In this detection apparatus, the water content of a material to be charged is detected to measure the fine ratio in the material to be charged.	REFERENCE
However, only the fine ratio of a material to be charged that has a small particle size and adheres through water is highly correlated with the water content, and the particle size of a material to be charged having a large particle size cannot be measured with high accuracy.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
The present invention has been made in view of the foregoing problems in the conventional technology, and it is an object to provide a raw material particle size distribution measuring apparatus and a particle size distribution measuring method that can measure the particle size distribution of a raw material containing coarse particles and fine particles with high accuracy and to provide a porosity measuring apparatus that measures the porosity of the raw material using the measured particle size distribution.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Solution to Problem	SECTION SUBTITLE
The features of the present invention that solves the foregoing problems are as follows.	JURIDICAL TEMPLATE
(1) An apparatus for measuring a particle size distribution of a raw material includes: a coarse particle measuring device that acquires information indicating a particle size distribution of coarse particles; a fine particle measuring device that acquires information indicating a particle size distribution of fine particles;	REPHRASED CLAIM
and an arithmetic device that computes the particle size distribution of the coarse particles using the information indicating the particle size distribution of the coarse particles, computes the particle size distribution of the fine particles using the information indicating the particle size distribution of the fine particles, and computes an overall particle size distribution of the raw material using the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and the particle size distribution of the fine particles.	REPHRASED CLAIM
(2) In the apparatus for measuring a particle size distribution of a raw material according to (1), the information indicating the particle size distribution of the fine particles is image data about the raw material, and the particle size distribution of the fine particles is computed using average brightness obtained by averaging the brightness in the image data.	REPHRASED CLAIM
(3) In the apparatus for measuring a particle size distribution of a raw material according to (1), the fine particle measuring device includes a spectrometric measurement unit that performs spectral analysis on light reflected from the raw material to measure spectral reflectance thereof.	REPHRASED CLAIM
The fine particle measuring device acquires spectral reflectances at a plurality of wavelengths as the information indicating the particle size distribution of the fine particles, and the arithmetic device computes the particle size distribution of the fine particles using scores of predetermined basis vectors obtained by subjecting the spectral reflectances at the plurality of wavelengths to principal component analysis or a partial least squares (PLS) method.	REPHRASED CLAIM
4) A method for measuring a particle size distribution of a raw material includes: a coarse particle measuring step of acquiring information indicating a particle size distribution of coarse particles;	REPHRASED CLAIM
a fine particle measuring step of acquiring information indicating a particle size distribution of fine particles; a coarse particle size distribution computing step of computing the particle size distribution of the coarse particles using the information indicating the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and acquired in the coarse particle measuring step;	REPHRASED CLAIM
a fine particle size distribution computing step of computing the particle size distribution of the fine particles using the information indicating the particle size distribution of the fine particles and acquired in the fine particle measuring step;	REPHRASED CLAIM
and a raw material particle size distribution computing step of computing an overall particle size distribution of the raw material using the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and the particle size distribution of the fine particles.	REPHRASED CLAIM
(5) In the raw material particle size distribution computing step in the method for measuring a particle size distribution of a raw material according to (4), the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and the particle size distribution of the fine particles are modeled by respective linear models, and a combination of the linear model of the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and the linear model of the particle size distribution of the fine particles is used to compute the overall particle size distribution of the raw material.	REPHRASED CLAIM
(6) A porosity measuring apparatus for measuring the porosity of a raw material stacked in a container and including coarse particles with large particle sizes and fine particles with small particle sizes includes: a coarse particle measuring device that measures a particle size distribution of the coarse particles;	REPHRASED CLAIM
a fine particle measuring device that measures a particle size distribution of the fine particles; and an arithmetic device that computes the porosity of the raw material stacked in the container using the particle size distribution of the coarse particles that has been measured by the coarse particle measuring device and the particle size distribution of the fine particles that has been measured by the fine particle measuring device.	REPHRASED CLAIM
(7) In the porosity measuring apparatus according to (6), the coarse particle measuring device and the fine particle measuring device are disposed above a conveyer that conveys the raw material to the container, and the arithmetic device computes the porosity of the raw material stacked in the container.	REPHRASED CLAIM
(8) In the porosity measuring apparatus according to (6) or (7), the arithmetic device corrects the computed particle size distribution of the coarse particles and the computed particle size distribution of the fine particles such that the computed particle size distribution of the coarse particles and the computed particle size distribution of the fine particles respectively agree with a particle size distribution of the coarse particles that has been measured in advance using a sieve and a particle size distribution of the fine particles that has been measured in advance using a sieve.	REPHRASED CLAIM
(9) In the porosity measuring apparatus according to (8), the arithmetic device corrects the particle size distribution of the coarse particles that has been measured by the coarse particle measuring device using a calibration curve for correcting the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and corrects the particle size distribution of the fine particles that has been measured by the fine particle measuring device using a calibration curve for correcting the particle size distribution of the fine particles.	REPHRASED CLAIM
Advantageous Effects of Invention	SECTION SUBTITLE
With the raw material particle size distribution measuring apparatus of the present invention, the particle size distribution of a raw material containing coarse particles and fine powder can be measured with high accuracy.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Moreover, in the raw material particle size distribution measuring apparatus, by subjecting the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and the particle size distribution of the fine particles to porosity conversion based on a porosity conversion model, the porosity of the raw material charged into and stacked in a container such as a blast furnace can be measured.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
By measuring the particle size distribution and porosity of coke to be charged into a blast furnace in real time using the raw material particle size distribution measuring apparatus to obtain the condition of the raw material in the blast furnace, the blast furnace can be operated according to the condition of the raw material in the blast furnace, and this contributes to the stabilization of the operation of the blast furnace.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Brief Description of Drawings	SECTION TITLE
[Fig. 1] Fig. 1 is a schematic illustration showing an example of a raw material particle size distribution measuring apparatus according to an embodiment and its peripheral structure.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[Fig. 2] Fig. 2 is a graph showing the relation between the average brightness and the fine ratio of coke fines.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[Fig. 3] Fig. 3 is a graph showing the relation between an estimated fine ratio of coke fines computed from absorbance and their fine ratio actually measured.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[Fig. 4] Fig. 4 is a graph showing the relation between an estimated fine ratio of coke fines computed from scores obtained using PLS and their fine ratio actually measured.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[Fig. 5] Fig. 5 is a graph showing the particle size distribution of coke obtained by sieve analysis.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[Fig. 6] Fig. 6 is a graph showing the relation between the logarithm of the mesh size of a sieve used for the sieve analysis on coke conveyed by a conveyer and the normal probability of a cumulative undersize mass fraction.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[Fig. 7] Fig. 7 is a graph comparing the results of measurement of the particle size distribution by sieve analysis and the results of measurement of the particle size distribution using the raw material particle size distribution measuring apparatus.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
[Fig. 8] Fig. 8 is a graph showing the relation between a harmonic mean particle diameter actually measured by sieve analysis and an estimated harmonic mean particle diameter computed using the raw material measuring apparatus.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Description of Embodiments	SECTION TITLE
An embodiment of the present invention will be described using, as an example, measurement of the particle size distribution of coke, which is one of blast furnace raw materials conveyed by a conveyer in a production process using a blast furnace.	EMBODIMENT
Fig. 1 is a schematic illustration showing an example of a raw material particle size distribution measuring apparatus according to the embodiment and its peripheral structure.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
First, coke 30, which is a raw material to be charged into the blast furnace, is stored in a hopper 12.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The coke 30 discharged from the hopper 12 is sieved with a sieve 14 to screen out small particles with particle sizes smaller the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14, and the resulting coke 30 is conveyed to the blast furnace (not shown) by a conveyer 16.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
However, since the sieving time using the sieve 14 is limited, the coke 30 contains fine particles that have not passed through the sieve 14, are equal to or smaller than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14, and adhere to coke particles larger than the sieve mesh size.	EMBODIMENT
Therefore, the coke 30 conveyed by the conveyer 16 contains coarse particles larger than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14 and fine particles that have not passed through the sieve 14 and are equal to or smaller than the sieve mesh size.	EMBODIMENT
In the present embodiment, the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14 is, for example, 35 mm.	EMBODIMENT
The blast furnace is an example of a container.	EMBODIMENT
The raw material particle size distribution measuring apparatus 10 includes an arithmetic device 20, a coarse particle measuring device 22, and a fine particle measuring device 24.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The coarse particle measuring device 22 is disposed above the conveyer 16.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The coarse particle measuring device 22 performs a coarse particle measuring step to obtain information indicating the particle size distribution of the coarse particles in the coke 30 conveyed by the conveyer 16 in real time.	EMBODIMENT
The fine particle measuring device 24 is also disposed above the conveyer 16.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The fine particle measuring device 24 performs a fine particle measuring step to obtain information indicating the particle size distribution of the fine particles in the coke 30 conveyed by the conveyer 16 in real time.	EMBODIMENT
In the present embodiment, the coarse particles in the coke 30 are lump coke with particle sizes larger than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14, and the fine particles in the coke 30 are coke fines with particle sizes equal to or smaller than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14.	EMBODIMENT
The arithmetic device 20 is, for example, a general-purpose computer such as a workstation or a personal computer that includes an arithmetic unit 26 and a storage unit 28.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The arithmetic unit 26 is, for example, a CPU and controls the operation of the coarse particle measuring device 22 and the operation of the fine particle measuring device 24 using programs and data stored in the storage unit 28.	EMBODIMENT
The arithmetic unit 26 obtains information indicating the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and information indicating the particle size distribution of the fine particles and computes the particle size distribution of the coke 30 containing the coarse particles and the fine particles.	EMBODIMENT
Programs for controlling the coarse particle measuring device 22 and the fine particle measuring device 24, programs for performing computations in the arithmetic unit 26, and arithmetic formulas etc. used during execution of these programs are prestored in the storage unit 28.	EMBODIMENT
In the present embodiment, the coarse particle measuring device 22 is, for example, a laser rangefinder.	EMBODIMENT
The laser rangefinder is controlled by the arithmetic unit 26 and measures the distance from the laser rangefinder to the coke 30 on the conveyer 16 in real time.	EMBODIMENT
The laser rangefinder acquires profile data about the coke 30 that is information about the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and indicates the distance from the laser rangefinder to the coke 30.	EMBODIMENT
The laser rangefinder outputs the profile data about the coke 30 to the arithmetic device 20.	EMBODIMENT
Preferably, the laser rangefinder has a measurement region having the same width as the conveyer 16 and can measure all the coke 30 conveyed by the conveyer 16.	EMBODIMENT
The laser rangefinder scans the coke 30 conveyed by the conveyer 16 linearly with a laser beam, for example, in a direction orthogonal to the conveying direction at a rate of 1,000 to 10,000 lines/sec to generate two-dimensional profile data about the coke 30 that includes measured line data sets arranged in a time direction.	EMBODIMENT
When the arithmetic unit 26 acquires the two-dimensional profile data about the coke 30 from the laser rangefinder, the arithmetic unit 26 performs particle segmentation processing on the profile data about the coke 30.	EMBODIMENT
The particle segmentation processing is used to identify individual particles in the two-dimensional profile data and performed using, for example, a processing method known as the Watershed algorithm.	EMBODIMENT
The arithmetic unit 26 computes the sizes of the particles of the coke 30 separated by the particle segmentation processing using a circular curve fitting method and then counts the numbers of particles in different predetermined particle size ranges to produce a histogram representing the particle size distribution of the coarse particles in the coke 30.	EMBODIMENT
The arithmetic unit 26 performs the above-described step for computing the particle size distribution of the coarse particles to compute the particle size distribution of the coarse particles in the coke 30 in real time.	EMBODIMENT
The layer thickness of the coke 30 on the conveyer 16 is about 100 mm.	EMBODIMENT
Generally, when a granular material is stacked, large size particles segregate on an upper layer side, and small size particles segregate on a lower layer side.	REFERENCE
Similarly, in the coke layer, the coke 30 segregates.	EMBODIMENT
Specifically, the number of large size coke particles is larger on the upper layer side of the coke layer, and the number of small size coke particles is larger on the lower layer side.	EMBODIMENT
The particle size distribution computed using the profile data about the coke 30 is the particle size distribution of coke 30 present in the upper layer of the coke layer, and many large size coke particles are present in the particle size distribution.	EMBODIMENT
It is therefore known that the particle size distribution computed using the profile data about the coke 30 shows larger particle size distribution than the actual particle size distribution.	EMBODIMENT
This phenomenon may be corrected as follows.	JURIDICAL TEMPLATE
Assume that the segregation in the coke layer does not change with time.	EMBODIMENT
Then the difference between the particle size distribution of the coke 30 on the upper layer side and the particle size distribution over the entire layer is measured in advance by sieve analysis and prestored in the storage unit 28.	EMBODIMENT
The arithmetic unit 26 may correct the computed particle size distribution of the coarse particles using the difference in the particle size distribution stored in the storage unit 28.	EMBODIMENT
This improves the accuracy in the measurement of the particle size distribution of the coarse particles.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
The fine particle measuring device 24 is, for example, a camera equipped with a stroboscope.	EMBODIMENT
The camera is controlled by the arithmetic unit 26 and captures an image of the coke 30 at predetermined time intervals to acquire, in real time, image data about the coke 30 as information indicating the particle size distribution of the fine particles.	EMBODIMENT
The camera outputs the image data to the arithmetic unit 26.	EMBODIMENT
An image sensor such as a CCD or CMOS sensor included in the camera is an image acquisition unit that captures an image of the coke 30 to generate the image data.	EMBODIMENT
When the arithmetic unit 26 acquires the image data from the camera, the arithmetic unit 26 computes the arithmetic mean of the brightnesses (0 to 255) of pixels in each set of image data to obtain the average brightness.	EMBODIMENT
A relational expression that associates the average brightness to the fine ratio of coke with a particle size of 1 mm or less (which may be hereinafter referred to as coke fines) is prestored in the storage unit 28, and the arithmetic unit 26 computes the fine ratio of the coke fines as the particle size distribution of the fine particles in the coke 30 using the average brightness and the relational expression.	EMBODIMENT
The arithmetic unit 26 performs the step of computing the particle size distribution of the fine particles to compute the particle size distribution of the fine particles in the coke 30 in real time.	EMBODIMENT
The fine ratio of the coke fines means the ratio of the mass of the coke fines to the total mass of the coke.	DEFINITION
Since most of the coke with a particle size equal to or less than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14 is coke fines with a particle size of 1 mm or less as described later, the particle size distribution of the fine particles equal to or less than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14 can be represented by the fine ratio of the coke fines with a particle size of 1 mm or less.	EMBODIMENT
Therefore, when the fine ratio of the coke fines can be measured, the particle size distribution of the fine particles with particle sizes equal to or less than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14 can be measured.	EMBODIMENT
Fig. 2 is a graph showing the relation between the average brightness and the fine ratio of the coke fines.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In Fig. 2, the vertical axis represents the measured fine ratio (% by mass) of the coke fines that is measured by sieve analysis performed after the coke is dried, and the horizontal axis is the arithmetic mean of the brightnesses of the pixels in the image data generated by capturing an image of the coke.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in Fig. 2, there is a strong correlation between the fine ratio of the coke fines and the average brightness.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Therefore, the relational expression between the average brightness and the fine ratio of the coke fines that is represented by a solid line in Fig. 2 is computed and prestored in the storage unit 28, and the arithmetic unit 26 can thereby compute the fine ratio of the coke fines using the average brightness and the relational expression.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
After the computation of the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and the particle size distribution of the fine particles using the average brightness and the relational expression, the arithmetic unit 26 computes the particle size distribution of the coke 30 using these distributions.	EMBODIMENT
The fine particle measuring device 24 used may be a spectroscopic system including a spectrometric measurement unit that performs spectral analysis on light reflected from the coke 30 to measure its spectral reflectance.	EMBODIMENT
In this case, the spectroscopic system acquires in real time the spectral reflectance at the absorption wavelength of water and the spectral reflectances at two reference wavelengths different from the absorption wavelength of water and lying on both sides of the absorption wavelength of water as the information indicating the particle size distribution of the fine particles.	EMBODIMENT
The spectroscopic system acquires the spectral reflectances at, for example, a rate of one measurement/sec. or higher and outputs the spectral reflectances at the three wavelengths to the arithmetic unit 26.	EMBODIMENT
The arithmetic unit 26 computes the absorbance at the absorption wavelength of water using the acquired spectral reflectances at the three wavelengths and the following formula (1).	EMBODIMENT
X=1−λ2/α⋅λ1+1−α⋅λ3	EMBODIMENT
In formula (1), X is the absorbance at the absorption wavelength of water.	EMBODIMENT
λ1 and λ3 are the spectral reflectances at the reference wavelengths, and λ2 is the spectral reflectance at the absorption wavelength of water.	EMBODIMENT
α is a weight and is 0. 5 for 3-color ratio calculation.	EMBODIMENT
During calibration, λ1 = λ2 = λ3 = 1, and X = 0.	EMBODIMENT
As shown by formula (1) above, the arithmetic unit 26 computes the absorbance at the absorption wavelength of water by computing the ratio of the spectral reflectance at the absorption wavelength of water to the spectral reflectances at the two reference wavelengths different from the absorption wavelength of water and then subtracting the above obtained ratio from 1.	EMBODIMENT
The relational expression that associates the absorbance at the absorption wavelength of water with the fine ratio of the coke fines is prestored in the storage unit 28, and the arithmetic unit 26 computes the fine ratio of the coke fines by simple linear regression using the computed absorbance at the absorption wavelength of water and the relational expression.	EMBODIMENT
As described above, even when the spectroscopic system is used as the fine particle measuring device 24, the arithmetic unit 26 can compute the particle size distribution of the fine particles in the coke 30 in real time.	EMBODIMENT
Fig. 3 is a graph showing the relation between an estimated fine ratio of the coke fines computed using the absorbance and the fine ratio actually measured.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In Fig. 3, the vertical axis represents the estimated fine ratio (% by mass) of the coke fines, and the horizontal axis represents the measured fine ratio (% by mass) of the coke fines measured by sieve analysis on the dried coke.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in Fig. 3, the correlation between the estimated fine ratio of the coke fines computed from the absorbance and the measured fine ratio of the coke fines obtained by sieve analysis is high, i.e., the correlation coefficient is 0. 73.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Therefore, it is found that the fine ratio of the coke fines can be computed using the absorbance with high accuracy.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
When the spectroscopic system is used as the fine particle measuring device 24, the spectroscopic system may acquire, as the information indicating the particle size distribution of the fine particles, spectral reflectances at nine wavelengths in the visible and infrared ranges in real time.	EMBODIMENT
In this case, the spectroscopic system acquires the spectral reflectances at wavelengths of, for example, blue, green, red, 1. 32 µm, 1. 46 µm, 1. 60 µm, 1. 80 µm, 1. 96 µm, and 2. 10 µm that are arranged from the short wavelength side.	EMBODIMENT
The spectroscopic system outputs the spectral reflectances at the nine wavelengths to the arithmetic unit 26.	EMBODIMENT
The blue is a wavelength in the range of 435 to 480 nm, and the green is a wavelength in the range of 500 to 560 nm.	EMBODIMENT
The red is a wavelength in the range of 610 to 750 nm.	EMBODIMENT
Upon acquisition of the spectral reflectances at the nine wavelengths, the arithmetic unit 26 computes the scores of predetermined basis vectors using arithmetic formulas prestored in the storage unit 28.	EMBODIMENT
The arithmetic unit 26 computes the fine ratio of the coke fines using a relational expression that associate the scores with the fine ratio of the coke fines.	EMBODIMENT
The scores of the predetermined basis vectors are the scores of basis vectors strongly correlated with a change in the fine ratio of the coke 30 and selected from nine basis vectors obtained by principal component analysis on the spectral reflectances obtained from the spectroscopic system.	EMBODIMENT
The arithmetic formulas for computing the scores from the spectral reflectances at the nine wavelengths and the relational expression that associates the scores with the fine ratio of the coke fines are prestored in the storage unit 28.	EMBODIMENT
The arithmetic formulas for computing the scores and the relational expression between the scores and the fine ratio of the coke fines are determined as follows.	EMBODIMENT
First, the spectroscopic system is used to measure the spectral reflectances of the coke conveyed by the conveyer 16 at the nine wavelengths.	EMBODIMENT
The measured spectral reflectances at the nine wavelengths are subjected to principal component analysis to obtain nine basis vectors of first to ninth principal components and nine scores computed from the basis vectors.	EMBODIMENT
Next, the coke used to measure the spectral reflectances is collected and subjected to sieve analysis to actually measure the fine ratio of the coke fines with particle sizes of 1 mm or less.	EMBODIMENT
The fine ratio is computed as follows.	EMBODIMENT
The coke is dried and then sieved using a sieve with a mesh size of 1 mm.	EMBODIMENT
The fine ratio is computed as the ratio of the difference in the mass of the coke before and after sieving to the mass of the coke before sieving.	EMBODIMENT
This procedure is repeated using different types of coke with different fine ratios and different water contents to obtain a plurality of sets of data.	EMBODIMENT
Each set of data includes nine scores and the fine ratio obtained by the sieve analysis.	EMBODIMENT
The nine scores of each type of coke are compared with those of other types of coke with different fine ratios in the plurality of sets of data, and n scores (n is a natural number smaller than 9) that are strongly correlated with a change in the fine ratio of the coke are identified.	EMBODIMENT
The scores can be computed using the basis vectors for the scores.	EMBODIMENT
The relational expression that associates the scores with the fine ratio of the coke fines is, for example, formula (2) that is a regression formula with the fine ratio of the coke fines (Y) as a response variable and the identified n scores (X1, X2, ......, Xn) as explanatory variables.	EMBODIMENT
Y=e+f1×X2+f2×X2+……+fn×Xn	EMBODIMENT
In formula (1), e, f1, f2, ......, fn are parameters of the regression formula.	EMBODIMENT
By identifying the n scores strongly correlated with the change in the fine ratio of the coke fines, data sets each including the fine ratio and the identified n scores can be obtained from the data sets for different types of coke with different fine ratios and different water contents, each data set including the nine scores and the fine ratio of the coke.	EMBODIMENT
Therefore, the parameters b, a1, a2, ......, an in formula (1) can be computed using the data and the least squares method.	EMBODIMENT
Formula (2) is the relational expression that associates the identified scores with the fine ratio of the coke fines.	EMBODIMENT
In the example shown above, the spectral reflectances at the nine wavelengths are subjected to the principal component analysis to identify the scores strongly correlated with the fine ratio of the coke 30, but this is not a limitation.	EMBODIMENT
The scores strongly correlated with the fine ratio of the coke may be determined directly by acquiring a plurality of sets of data each including the fine ratio and the spectral reflectances at the nine wavelengths and applying the partial least squares (PLS) method to these data sets.	EMBODIMENT
In this case, arithmetic formulas for computing the scores strongly correlated with the fine ratio of the coke can be computed from the basis vectors for the scores determined by the PLS.	EMBODIMENT
The relational expression between the fine ratio and the scores is the same regression formula as formula (1).	EMBODIMENT
The parameters of the regression formula in formula (1) can be determined by the least squares method from a plurality of sets of data each including the fine ratio and the scores determined by the PLS method.	EMBODIMENT
Fig. 4 is a graph showing the relation between the estimated fine ratio of the coke fines computed from the scores obtained by using the PLS and the measured fine ratio.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In Fig. 4, the horizontal axis represents the measured fine ratio (% by mass), and the vertical axis represents the estimated fine ratio (% by mass).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The measured fine ratio is computed as follows.	EMBODIMENT
As in the above-described method, the coke is dried, and then the dried coke is sieved with a sieve with a mesh size of 1 mm.	EMBODIMENT
The fine ratio is computed as the ratio of the difference in the mass of the coke before and after sieving to the mass of the coke before sieving.	EMBODIMENT
The estimated fine ratio is the fine ratio of the coke computed using a regression formula that uses the fine ratio of the coke as a response variable and two scores strongly correlated with the fine ratio of the coke obtained by the PLS as explanatory variables.	EMBODIMENT
As shown in Fig. 4, there is a strong correlation between the estimated fine ratio of the coke and the measured fine ratio, and the correlation coefficient is 0. 78.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As can be seen from these results, the fine ratio of the coke can be determined with sufficient accuracy by using the scores obtained using the PLS.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
A laser scattering-type particle size distribution measuring device that irradiates the coke 30 with a laser beam to measure the particle size distribution of the coke fines from an optical intensity pattern formed by the scattered light may be used as a fine particle measuring unit.	EMBODIMENT
n this case, the laser scattering-type particle size distribution measuring device acquires the particle size distribution of the coke fines in real time (at intervals of 30 seconds).	EMBODIMENT
The laser scattering-type particle size distribution measuring device outputs the particle size distribution of the coke fines to the arithmetic unit 26.	EMBODIMENT
Fig. 5 is a graph showing the particle size distribution of the coke 30 conveyed by the conveyer 16.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The particle size distribution is determined by sieve analysis.	EMBODIMENT
A dash-dot line in Fig. 5 represents the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Since the fine particles equal to or less than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14 are removed from the coke 30 by sieving with the sieve 14, the ratio of fine particles in a region on the left side of the dash-dot line and less than the sieve mesh size is small.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Fig. 6 is a graph showing the relation between the logarithm of the mesh size of the sieve used for the sieve analysis on the coke 30 conveyed by the conveyer 16 and the normal probability of the cumulative undersize mass fraction.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In Fig. 6, the horizontal axis represents the logarithm of the mesh size of the sieve used for the sieve analysis on the coke 30, and the cumulative undersize mass fraction of the coke is plotted on the vertical axis with a normal probability scale versus the sieve mesh size.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In the example shown in Fig. 6, an approximate straight line 1 is an approximate straight line for the fine particles in the coke 30, and an approximate straight line 2 is an approximate straight line for the coarse particles in the coke 30.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
A dash-dot line represents the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in Fig. 6, in the coke 30 sieved with the sieve 14, fine particles of coke 30 equal to or smaller than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14 are present, although their amount is small.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The fine particles of coke 30 in the region on the left side of the dash-dot line and less than the sieve mesh size are coke fines adhering to the coarse particles in the coke 30, and the particle size of the fine particles is much smaller than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Therefore, in the region in which the particle size of the coke 30 is equal to or less than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14, the cumulative undersize mass fraction does not increase as the particle size of the coke 30 increases.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
However, the cumulative undersize mass fraction of the coarse particles larger than the sieve mesh size increases as the particle size of the coke 30 increases.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The coarse particles in the coke 30 are considered to be pulverized-crushed particles.	EMBODIMENT
In this case, it is known that the cumulative oversize mass fraction distribution of the coarse particles in the coke 30 can be approximated by the Rosin-Rammler distribution.	REFERENCE
This means that, when particles are naturally crushed-pulverized, there is regularity in their particle size distribution.	REFERENCE
Therefore, the relation shown in Fig. 6 that does not follow the Rosin-Rammler distribution is a phenomenon different from natural crushing-pulverization.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As can be seen from Fig. 6, the relation between the particle size of the fine particles in the coke 30 and the cumulative undersize mass fraction significantly differs from the relation between the particle size of the coarse particles in the coke 30 and the cumulative undersize mass fraction, and two different linear distributions are present so as to border on each other at the sieve mesh size.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In the particle size distribution measuring apparatus 10 according to the present embodiment, the coarse particle measuring device 22 and the fine particle measuring device 24 that differ from each other are used to acquire the information indicating the particle size distribution of the fine particles equal to or smaller than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14 and the information indicating the particle size distribution of the coarse particles larger than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14 independently, and the arithmetic unit 26 computes, using the above information, the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and the particle size distribution of the fine particles.	EMBODIMENT
The arithmetic unit 26 performs the step of computing the particle size distribution of the raw material to compute the overall particle size distribution of the coke 30.	EMBODIMENT
Specifically, the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and the particle size distribution of the fine particles are modeled by linear models using the cumulative undersize mass fraction, and a combination of the linear models is used to compute the overall particle size distribution of the coke 30.	EMBODIMENT
Fig. 7 is a graph comparing the results of measurement of the particle size distribution by sieve analysis and the results of measurement of the particle size distribution by the raw material particle size distribution measuring apparatus.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In Fig. 7, the horizontal axis represents the logarithm of the sieve mesh size for the coke, and the cumulative undersize mass fraction of the coke 30 is plotted on the vertical axis with a normal probability scale versus the sieve mesh size.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The results of the measurement using the raw material measuring apparatus are shown in Fig. 7.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The raw material measuring apparatus used for the measurement includes a laser rangefinder serving as a coarse particle measuring unit and a digital camera equipped with a strobe light serving as a fine particle measuring unit.	EMBODIMENT
As shown in Fig. 7, open circles indicating the cumulative undersize mass fraction of the coke 30 measured by the sieve analysis agree with triangles indicating the cumulative undersize mass fraction of the coke 30 measured by the particle size distribution measuring apparatus 10.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As can be seen from the above results, by using the particle size distribution measuring apparatus 10 to compute the particle size distribution of the coarse particles in the coke 30 and the particle size distribution of the fine particles independently and then combining these distributions together using the cumulative undersize mass fraction, the particle size distribution of the coke 30 can be measured with high accuracy.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
The arithmetic unit 26 may correct the particle size distribution of the coarse particles in the coke 30 measured by the coarse particle measuring device 22 and the particle size distribution of the fine particles in the coke 30 measured by the fine particle measuring device 24 such that they agree with the known particle size distribution of the coke 30 measured in advance by sieve analysis.	EMBODIMENT
The arithmetic unit 26 may correct the particle size distribution of the coarse particles measured by the coarse particle measuring device 22 using a calibration curve for correcting the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and may correct the particle size distribution of the fine particles measured by the fine particle measuring device 24 using a calibration curve for correcting the particle size distribution of the fine particles.	EMBODIMENT
As described above, the relation between the particle size distribution of the fine particles in the coke 30 and their cumulative undersize mass fraction significantly differs from the relation between the particle size distribution of the coarse particles in the coke 30 and their cumulative undersize mass fraction.	EMBODIMENT
Therefore, the arithmetic unit 26 corrects these results using calibration curves modeled using different approximate straight lines, and this allows the particle size to be measured with higher accuracy.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
The calibration curves are produced by the following procedure.	EMBODIMENT
First, the coarse particle measuring device 22 and the fine particle measuring device 24 are used to measure the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and the particle size distribution of the fine particles, and the cumulative undersize mass fraction is measured at at least two particle sizes.	EMBODIMENT
Values computed in this measurement are referred to as measurement values 1.	EMBODIMENT
Next, a sample is collected from the coke 30 used for the measurement and subjected to sieve analysis to measure its particle size distribution.	EMBODIMENT
Values measured by this measurement are referred to as measurement values 2.	EMBODIMENT
The above measurement procedure is repeated at least twice to obtain at least two sets of combination of the measurement values 1 and 2 and more preferably 10 or more sets.	EMBODIMENT
Then, the logarithm of the sieve mesh size is plotted on the horizontal axis (x axis), and the cumulative undersize mass fraction is plotted on the vertical axis (y axis) with a normal probability scale versus the sieve mesh size, as in Fig. 6.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The plotted measurement values 1 are subjected to linear regression, and formulas (3) and (4) below are obtained.	EMBODIMENT
In formulas (3) and (4), ys is the cumulative undersize mass fraction of the fine particles equal to or smaller than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14, and y1 is the cumulative undersize mass fraction of the coarse particles larger than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14.	EMBODIMENT
ys=as1xs−CS1 yl=al1xl−Cl1	EMBODIMENT
In formulas (3) and (4), xs is a particle size that satisfies xb ≥ xs where xb is the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14 (its logarithm), and xl is a particle size that satisfies xb < xl.	EMBODIMENT
as1, Cs1, al1, and Cl1 are parameters to be determined.	EMBODIMENT
as1 and CS1 are computed using formula (3) and at least two sets of data about the particle size distribution measured by the fine particle measuring device 24 and the cumulative undersize mass fraction.	EMBODIMENT
Similarly, al1 and Cl1 are computed using formula (4) and at least two sets of data about the particle size distribution measured by the coarse particle measuring device 22 and the cumulative undersize mass fraction.	EMBODIMENT
Similarly, measurement values 2 are subjected to linear regression, and the following formulas (5) and (6) are obtained for the cumulative undersize mass fraction ys of the fine particles equal to or smaller than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14 and the cumulative undersize mass fraction yl of the coarse particles larger than the sieve mesh size of the sieve	EMBODIMENT
14.ys=as2xs−CS2 yl=al2xl−Cl2	EMBODIMENT
In formulas (5) and (6), xs is a particle size that satisfies xb ≥ xs where xb is the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14, and xl is a particle size that satisfies xb < xl.	EMBODIMENT
as2, CS2, al2 and Cl2 are parameters to be determined.	EMBODIMENT
as2 and CS2 are computed using formula (5) and at least two sets of data about the particle size distribution measured by the sieve analysis and the cumulative undersize mass fraction.	EMBODIMENT
Similarly, al2 and Cl2 are computed using formula (6) and at least two sets of data about the particle size distribution measured by the sieve analysis and the cumulative undersize mass fraction.	EMBODIMENT
Next, as1 and as2 computed using formulas (3) and (5) and CS1 and CS2 computed using formulas (3) and (5) are subjected to linear regression, and formulas (7) and (8) below are obtained.	EMBODIMENT
al1 and al2 computed using formulas (4) and (6) and Cl1 and Cl2 computed using formulas (4) and (6) are subjected to linear regression, and the following formulas (9) and (10) are obtained.	EMBODIMENT
as2=Dasas1+Eas Cs2=DbsCs1+Ebs al2=Dalal1+Eal Cl2=DblCl1+Ebl	EMBODIMENT
In formulas (7) to (10) above, Das, Eas, Dbs, Ebs, Dal, Eal, Dbl, and Ebl are parameters to be determined.	EMBODIMENT
The straight lines defined by Das, Eas, Dbs, Ebs, Dal, Eal, Dbl, and Ebl computed using formulas (7) to (10) are calibration curves modeled by linear approximation.	EMBODIMENT
A problem when the fine particle measuring device 24 is used to measure the fine ratio is that the values of as1, Cs1, as2, and Cs2 in formulas (3) and (5) cannot be determined using one data point.	EMBODIMENT
In this case, as1 and as2 may be deleted, and parameters y = Cs1 and y = Cs2 may be used.	EMBODIMENT
In this case, the parameters can be determined using only one data point.	EMBODIMENT
In particular, as shown in Fig. 6, since the cumulative undersize mass fraction value of the fine particles in the coke 30 sieved using the sieve 14 does not change with the particle size, the parameters as1 and as2 can be deleted without any problem.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Next, a method for correcting the particle size distribution using calibration curves will be described.	EMBODIMENT
The coarse particle measuring device 22 and the fine particle measuring device 24 are used to perform measurement on the coke 30 conveyed by the conveyer 16 to thereby obtain measurement values 3.	EMBODIMENT
The cumulative undersize mass fraction ys of the fine particles equal to or smaller than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14 and the cumulative undersize mass fraction yl of the coarse particles larger than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14 are subjected to linear regression using the same method as that used to determine formulas (3) to (6), and the following formulas (11) and (12) are obtained.	EMBODIMENT
ys=as3xs−CS3 yl=al3xl−Cl3	EMBODIMENT
In formulas (11) and (12), xs is a particle size that satisfies xb ≥ xs where xb is the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14, and xl is a particle size that satisfies xb < xl.	EMBODIMENT
as3, Cs3, al3, and Cl3 are parameters to be determined.	EMBODIMENT
as3 and Cs3 are computed using formula (11) and at least two sets of data about the particle size distribution measured using the fine particle measuring device 24 and the cumulative undersize mass fraction.	EMBODIMENT
Similarly, al3 and Cl3 are computed using formula (12) and at least two sets of data about the particle size distribution measured using the coarse particle measuring device 22 and the cumulative undersize mass fraction.	EMBODIMENT
The computed parameters Das, Eas, Dbs, Ebs, Dal, Eal, Dbl, and Ebl, as3, Cs3, al3, and Cl3 computed using formulas (11) and (12), and formulas (13) to (16) are used to compute as4, bs4, al4, and bl4.	EMBODIMENT
as4=Dasas3+Eas Cs4=DbsCs3+Ebs al4=Dalal3+Eal Cl4=DblCl3+Ebl	EMBODIMENT
Formula (17) that uses as4 and Cs4 computed from formulas (13) to (16) is a formula for correcting the relation between the particle size distribution measured using the fine particle measuring device 24 and the cumulative undersize mass fraction, and formula (18) that uses al4 and Cl4 is a formula for correcting the relation between the particle size distribution measured using the coarse particle measuring device 22 and the cumulative undersize mass fraction.	EMBODIMENT
ys=as4xs−CS4 yl=al4xl−Cl4	EMBODIMENT
As described above, the arithmetic unit 26 corrects the particle size distribution of the coarse particles using the calibration curve for correcting the particle size distribution in the particle size measurement range of the coarse particle measuring device 22 and corrects the particle size distribution of the fine particles using the calibration curve for correcting the particle size distribution in the particle size measurement range of the fine particle measuring device 24.	EMBODIMENT
In this manner, the particle size distribution measuring apparatus 10 according to the present embodiment can measure the particle size distribution of the coke 30 with higher accuracy.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Fig. 8 is a graph showing the relation between the harmonic mean particle diameter measured by sieve analysis and the estimated harmonic mean particle diameter computed by the raw material measuring apparatus.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In Fig. 8, the horizontal axis represents the estimated harmonic mean particle size of the coke 30 measured by the particle size distribution measuring apparatus 10, and the vertical axis represents the measured harmonic mean particle size of the coke 30 measured by the sieve analysis.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The results of the measurement shown in Fig. 8 were obtained using the raw material measuring apparatus.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The raw material measuring apparatus used includes a laser rangefinder used as the coarse particle measuring device and a digital camera equipped with a strobe light used as the fine particle measuring device.	EMBODIMENT
The measurement values were corrected using the calibration curves described above.	EMBODIMENT
As can be seen from Fig. 8, the harmonic mean particle diameter of the coke 30 measured by the sieve analysis agrees with the harmonic mean particle diameter of the coke 30 measured using the particle size distribution measuring apparatus 10 according to the present embodiment.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Next, a method for computing the porosity of the coke 30 stacked in a blast furnace will be described.	EMBODIMENT
The porosity can be computed using the particle size distribution measuring apparatus 10 according to the present embodiment.	EMBODIMENT
In the present embodiment, the porosity is measured using, for example, a Sato-Taguchi model (Non Patent Literature 1) in which coarse particles and fine particles are treated separately to compute the porosity.	EMBODIMENT
However, this model is not a limitation, and any other model for computing the porosity may be used.	EMBODIMENT
With the above model, the porosity ε can be computed using the following formula (19).	EMBODIMENT
[Math. 1] ε=a×logDp+b×1−c×Ispd	EMBODIMENT
In formula (19), a, b, c, and d are parameters that are quantities experimentally determined according to the type of particles.	EMBODIMENT
For example, in the case of coke, a = 0. 153, b = 0. 418, c = 0. 01225, and d = 0. 416.	EMBODIMENT
Dp is the harmonic mean particle size, and Isp is a value defined by the following formulas (20), (21), and (22).	EMBODIMENT
Math. 2] Isp=100×Ip×Is	EMBODIMENT
[Math. 3] Ip=1Dp2×∑iwiDi−Dp2	EMBODIMENT
[Math. 4] Is=Dp2×∑iwi1Di−1Dp2	EMBODIMENT
In formulas (21) and (22), Di is the center diameter of the i-th particle size, and Wi is the undersize mass fraction at the i-th particle size.	EMBODIMENT
Ip defined by formula (21) is a quantity that represents the variance of the particle size distribution and is largely influenced more by the coarse particles than by the fine particles.	EMBODIMENT
Is defined by formula (22) is a quantity that represents the variance of the specific surface area and is largely influenced by the fine particles.	EMBODIMENT
As described above, the above model is highly compatible with the particle size distribution measuring apparatus 10 that can measure the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and the particle size distribution of the fine particles separately.	EMBODIMENT
The particle size distribution measuring apparatus 10 according to the present embodiment in which formulas (19) to (22) are prestored in the storage unit 28 is used as a porosity measuring apparatus.	EMBODIMENT
The porosity measuring apparatus measures the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and the particle size distribution of the fine particles in the coke 30 conveyed by the conveyer 16 in real time using separate measurement devices, i.e., the coarse particle measuring device 22 and the fine particle measuring device 24.	EMBODIMENT
The porosity measuring apparatus can measure the porosity of the coke stacked in the blast furnace in real time using the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and the particle size distribution of the fine particles.	EMBODIMENT
Therefore, in a production process in, for example, the blast furnace, the blast furnace can be operated while the condition of the coke 30 charged into the blast furnace is obtained in real time, and this can contribute to the stabilization of the operation of the blast furnace.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
By correcting the measurement values using the respective calibration curves for different measurement ranges, the particle size distribution of the coarse particles and the particle size distribution of the fine particles can be measured with high accuracy, and the accuracy of the measurement of the porosity of the coke 30 is also improved.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In the example described in the present embodiment, the coke 30 conveyed by the conveyer 16 is used as the raw material, but this is not a limitation.	EMBODIMENT
Other examples of the raw material charged into the blast furnace are lump ore and sintered ore, and they may be used instead of the coke.	EMBODIMENT
The present embodiment can be more preferably used when the step of removing fine particles using a sieve is provided before the raw material is charged into the blast furnace.	EMBODIMENT
In the example described in the present embodiment, the laser rangefinder is used as the coarse particle measuring device 22, but this is not a limitation.	EMBODIMENT
Any device such as a combination of a camera and a light may be used as the coarse particle measuring device 22, so long as it can observe the upper surface of the coke 30 on the conveyer 16 and can measure the particle size distribution of the coarse particles.	EMBODIMENT
Part of the function of the arithmetic device 20 described in the present embodiment may be performed by the coarse particle measuring device 22 and the fine particle measuring device 24.	EMBODIMENT
The coarse particle measuring device 22 may compute the particle size distribution of the coarse particles, and the fine particle measuring device 24 may compute the particle size distribution of the fine particles.	EMBODIMENT
In the example described in the present embodiment, the particle size distribution of the coarse particles is the particle size distribution of coke 30 having a particle size larger than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14, and the particle size distribution of the fine particles is the particle size distribution of coke 30 having a particle size equal to or smaller than the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14.	EMBODIMENT
However, the particle size distributions of the coarse particles and the fine particles may be determined in at least one of the range in which the accuracy of the measurement of the particle size distribution by the coarse particle measuring device 22 is high and the range in which the accuracy of the measurement of the particle size distribution by the fine particle measuring device 24 is high.	EMBODIMENT
For example, when the laser rangefinder is used as the coarse particle measuring device 22, the particle size distribution can be measured with high accuracy in the particle size range of 10 mm or more.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In this case, the range of the particle size distribution of the coarse particles may be set to 10 mm or more, and the range of the particle size distribution of the fine particles may be set to less than 10 mm.	EMBODIMENT
n the exampled shown in the present embodiment, the lognormal distribution function is used to represent the cumulative undersize mass fraction as a straight line, but this is not a limitation.	EMBODIMENT
Any other function may be used so long as it can represent the particle size distribution of the coke sieved with the sieve 14 using a linear model of the coarse-side particle size distribution and a linear model of the fine-side particle size distribution that border on each other in the vicinity of the sieve mesh size of the sieve 14.	EMBODIMENT
Reference Signs List	SECTION TITLE
10particle size distribution measuring apparatus12hopper14sieve16conveyer20arithmetic device22coarse particle measuring device24fine particle measuring device26arithmetic unit28storage unit30coke	FIGURE DESCRIPTION