EMBEDDED SUBSTRATE AND MANUFACTURING METHOD THEREFOR	PATENT TITLE
This application claims priority to Chinese Patent Application No. 201710313770.5, filed with the Chinese Patent Office on May 5, 2017 and entitled "EMBEDDED SUBSTRATE AND MANUFACTURING METHOD FOR MANUFACTURING EMBEDDED SUBSTRATE", which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.	REFERENCE
TECHNICAL FIELD	SECTION TITLE
This application relates to the field of electronic materials and component technologies, and in particular, to an embedded substrate and a method for manufacturing an embedded substrate.	TECHNICAL FIELD
BACKGROUND	SECTION TITLE
Embedded component packaging (ECP) is a packaging form in which electronic components such as a capacitor, a resistor, and a chip are embedded in a substrate.	DEFINITION
The embedded component packaging, which can shorten a link path between the components, reduce a transmission loss, improve product integration, reduce an outer dimension of a module, and improve reliability and electro-thermal performance of a product, is an important means of achieving multifunctionality and high performance of a portable electronic device.	DEFINITION
In an existing production process, the embedded component packaging is usually implemented by using drilling and plating processes.	REFERENCE
As shown in FIG. 1, FIG. 1 is a schematic structural diagram of an existing substrate based on the embedded component packaging (referred to as an embedded substrate hereinafter).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
A chip 102 required by the embedded substrate is embedded in a substrate 101.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The chip 102 is disposed with various pins 1020, a plurality of drill holes 104 are disposed on the substrate 101 by using a drilling process, and a conductive material (for example, copper) is filled in the drill holes 104 by using a plating process or the like, so that the pins on a component 102 extend out of the substrate 101 by using the conductive material in the drill holes 104, to interconnect the chip 102 with another chip.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
It can be learned that according to the existing embedded component packaging process, laser generated when the drill holes 104 are drilled damage the chip.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
In an actual machining process, a minimum hole diameter of a drill hole of a drilling device is limited by performance of the drilling device, and a drilling offset possibly caused by a deviation is controlled in a drilling process.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
Due to such limiting factors, for a chip having relatively dense pins, such as an integrated chip, pins disposed on the chip are also very dense.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
To avoid damaging the chip, drill holes cannot be excessive large or cannot be deviated in position.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
This is a difficulty in the existing drilling process.	REFERENCE_PROBLEM
SUMMARY	SECTION TITLE
Embodiments of this application provide an embedded substrate and a method for manufacturing an embedded substrate, so as to resolve a problem in an existing embedded component packaging process that a hole diameter of a drill hole cannot exceed a pad size of a chip.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
According to a first aspect, an embodiment of this application provides an embedded substrate.	REPHRASED CLAIM
The embedded substrate includes a substrate and a chip embedded in the substrate.	REPHRASED CLAIM
A metal boss is disposed at a pin on the chip, and the pin is electrically connected to one end of the metal boss.	REPHRASED CLAIM
A height direction of the metal boss is perpendicular to a plane in which the chip is located, and a height value of the metal boss is greater than 100 micrometers.	REPHRASED CLAIM
A first surface of the substrate is disposed with a conductive layer matching a connection requirement of the pin.	REPHRASED CLAIM
The first surface is a surface of the substrate that is parallel to the chip and that is closest to the metal boss.	REPHRASED CLAIM
A drill hole is opened between the other end of the metal boss and the conductive layer on the substrate, and a conductive material is filled in the drill hole, to connect the pin having the connection requirement on the chip to the conductive layer by using the metal boss and the conductive material.	REPHRASED CLAIM
A cross section of the drill hole exceeds a cross section range of the other end of the metal boss.	REPHRASED CLAIM
According to this implementation, when it is ensured that a pin on an electronic component embedded in the substrate is normally connected, because the metal boss has a particular height (greater than 100 micrometers), a particular distance may be maintained between the drill hole and the chip.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In this way, even though the drill hole exceeds a top surface range of the metal boss, an exceeded region may have a substrate material whose thickness is the same as the height of the metal boss, to protect the chip from being damaged.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Therefore, in an actual machining process of the embedded substrate provided in this embodiment of this application, there is no need to limit a hole diameter of the drill hole based on a pad size or a metal boss size.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
For an embedded-substrate factory, this embodiment of this application may be applied to expand a chip type selection scope.	EMBODIMENT
That is, embedded packaging may be performed on any chip, with no need to consider whether a minimum hole diameter that can be reached by a drilling device of the embedded-substrate factory is less than a pad size of a chip.	EMBODIMENT
For a chip provider, this embodiment of this application may be applied to expand an embedded-substrate factory selection scope, and a minimum hole diameter that can be reached by a drilling device of each embedded-substrate factory is no longer a main selection limiting factor.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Therefore, selection may be performed depending only on a factor such as a quotation, thereby helping reduce chip packaging costs.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In addition, because the hole diameter of the drill hole in this embodiment of this application is not limited by the pad size or the metal boss size of the chip, in an actual packaging process, the hole diameter of the drill hole may be increased as much as possible, so as to improve through-flow and heat dissipation capabilities of the embedded substrate.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Optionally, the substrate includes an intermediate substrate layer configured to embed the chip and the metal boss, and a first surface substrate layer laminated on one surface of the intermediate substrate layer.	REPHRASED CLAIM
An outer surface of the first surface substrate layer is used as the first surface, and is disposed with the conductive layer, and the drill hole is opened in a region corresponding to each metal boss on the first surface substrate layer.	REPHRASED CLAIM
Optionally, the substrate further includes a second surface substrate layer laminated on the other surface of the intermediate substrate layer.	REPHRASED CLAIM
Optionally, the intermediate substrate layer, the first surface substrate layer, and the second surface substrate layer each are machined from a resin.	REPHRASED CLAIM
The conductive layer includes a metal plating layer.	REPHRASED CLAIM
Optionally, the embedded substrate further includes a resistor-capacitor component embedded in the substrate.	REPHRASED CLAIM
A drill hole is opened between a connecting terminal of the resistor-capacitor component and the conductive layer, a conductive material is filled in the drill hole, and the connecting terminal of the resistor-capacitor component is connected to the conductive layer by using the conductive material in the corresponding drill hole.	REPHRASED CLAIM
The embedded substrate provided in this implementation is simple in structure, and a required process and material are easy to implement and obtain, without increasing manufacturing costs.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Especially, the metal boss is disposed at the pin on the chip, resolving a problem in a conventional embedded component packaging process that a hole diameter of a drill hole is limited by a pad size of a chip, making a drilling operation more easily performed without damaging the chip, expanding the chip type selection scope for the substrate factory, expanding the embedded-substrate factory selection scope for the chip provider, and helping save chip packaging costs.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In addition, because this embodiment of this application imposes no limitation on the hole diameter of the drill hole, the hole diameter can be increased as much as possible, to facilitate through-flow and heat dissipation of the embedded substrate.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
According to a second aspect, an embodiment of this application further provides a method for manufacturing an embedded substrate.	REPHRASED CLAIM
The method includes: disposing a metal boss at each pin on a chip required by the embedded substrate, and electrically connecting the pin to one end of the metal boss, where a height direction of the metal boss is perpendicular to a plane in which the chip is located, and a height value of the metal boss is greater than 100 micrometers;	REPHRASED CLAIM
determining, based on a preset structure of the embedded substrate, relative positions of electronic components required by the embedded substrate, where the electronic components include the chip to be embedded;	REPHRASED CLAIM
filling a substrate material between the electronic components whose relative positions are determined, to form a substrate, so that the electronic components and the metal boss are embedded in the substrate;	REPHRASED CLAIM
disposing a conductive layer on a first surface of the substrate based on a connection requirement of each electronic component, where the first surface is a surface of the substrate that is parallel to the chip and that is closest to the metal boss;	REPHRASED CLAIM
and opening a drill hole between the other end of the metal boss and the conductive layer on the substrate, and filling a conductive material in the drill hole, to connect a pin having a connection requirement on the chip to the conductive layer by using the metal boss and the conductive material, where a cross section of the drill hole exceeds a cross section range of the other end of the metal boss.	REPHRASED CLAIM
According to this implementation, the cross section of the drill hole exceeds the cross section range of the other end of the metal boss.	REPHRASED CLAIM
Because the metal boss has a particular height, even though the cross section of the drill hole exceeds the cross section range of the other end of the metal boss, a substrate material having a substantial thickness protects the chip from being damaged.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Therefore, according to this embodiment of this application, a mutual limitation between a pad size of a chip and a minimum hole diameter of a drill hole in the prior art can be eliminated.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Persons skilled in the art may properly set a hole diameter of the drill hole based on factors such as drill hole density and chip heat dissipation.	EMBODIMENT
Optionally, the filling a substrate material between the electronic components whose relative positions are determined, to form a substrate includes: filling the substrate material between the electronic components whose relative positions are determined, to form an intermediate substrate layer, so that the chip and the metal boss are embedded in the intermediate substrate layer;	REPHRASED CLAIM
and laminating a substrate material on one surface of the intermediate substrate layer, to form a first surface substrate layer.	REPHRASED CLAIM
The disposing a conductive layer on a first surface of the substrate based on a connection requirement of each electronic component includes: disposing the conductive layer on an outer surface of the first surface substrate layer based on the connection requirement of each electronic component.	REPHRASED CLAIM
Optionally, the opening a drill hole between the other end of the metal boss and the conductive layer on the substrate includes: determining a drilling depth corresponding to each metal boss based on an actual embedding depth of the chip in the substrate and a height value of each metal boss;	REPHRASED CLAIM
and opening, based on the drilling depth, a drill hole in a region corresponding to each metal boss on the first surface substrate layer.	REPHRASED CLAIM
Optionally, the filling a substrate material between the electronic components whose relative positions are determined, to form a substrate further includes: laminating a substrate material on the other surface of the intermediate substrate layer, to form a second surface substrate layer.	REPHRASED CLAIM
Optionally, the electronic components further include a resistor-capacitor component.	REPHRASED CLAIM
The method further includes: opening, based on an actual embedding depth of the resistor-capacitor component in the substrate, a drill hole in a region corresponding to a connecting terminal of the resistor-capacitor component on the substrate, and filling a conductive material in the drill hole, so that the connecting terminal of the resistor-capacitor component is connected to the conductive layer by using the conductive material in the corresponding drill hole.	REPHRASED CLAIM
According to the method for manufacturing an embedded substrate provided in this embodiment of this application, there is no need to limit a hole diameter of the drill hole based on a pad size or a metal boss size.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
For an embedded-substrate factory, this embodiment of this application may be applied to expand a chip type selection scope.	EMBODIMENT
That is, embedded packaging may be performed on any chip, with no need to consider whether a minimum hole diameter that can be reached by a drilling device of the embedded-substrate factory is less than a pad size of a chip.	EMBODIMENT
For a chip provider, this embodiment of this application may be applied to expand an embedded-substrate factory selection scope, and a minimum hole diameter that can be reached by a drilling device of each embedded-substrate factory is no longer a main selection limiting factor.	EMBODIMENT
Therefore, selection may be performed depending only on a factor such as a quotation, thereby helping reduce chip packaging costs.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In addition, because the hole diameter of the drill hole in this embodiment of this application is not limited by the pad size or the metal boss size of the chip, in an actual packaging process, the hole diameter of the drill hole may be increased as much as possible, so as to improve through-flow and heat dissipation capabilities of the embedded substrate.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS	SECTION TITLE
To describe technical solutions in this application more clearly, the following briefly describes the accompanying drawings that need to be used in the embodiments.	JURIDICAL TEMPLATE
Obviously, for persons of ordinary skill in the art, other drawings may be obtained according to these accompanying drawings without creative efforts.	JURIDICAL TEMPLATE
FIG. 1 is a schematic structural diagram of an existing embedded substrate;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIG. 2 is a schematic structural diagram of an embedded substrate according to an embodiment of this application;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIG. 3 is a schematic structural diagram of another embedded substrate according to an embodiment of this application;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
FIG. 4 is a flowchart of a method for manufacturing an embedded substrate according to an embodiment of this application;	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
andFIG. 5 is a schematic process flowchart of a method for manufacturing an embedded substrate according to an embodiment of this application.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS	SECTION TITLE
FIG. 2 is a schematic structural diagram of an embedded substrate according to an embodiment of this application, and more specifically, is a sectional view along a thickness direction of the embedded substrate.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Referring to FIG. 2, the embedded substrate includes a substrate 21 and a chip 22 embedded in the substrate 21.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
A metal boss 23 is disposed at each pin 220 on the chip 22, and the pin 220 is electrically connected to one end of the corresponding metal boss 23.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
A height direction of the metal boss 23 is perpendicular to a plane in which the chip 22 is located, and the height direction of the metal boss 23 is parallel to a thickness (H) direction of the substrate 21.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
A height value h1 of the metal boss 23 may be determined based on an embedding depth h0 of the chip 22 in the substrate 21.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
That is, a larger depth (larger h0) by which the chip is embedded indicates a larger height value h1 of the required metal boss.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Optionally, in this embodiment, the height value h1 of each metal boss 23 is greater than 100 micrometers.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
A first surface of the substrate 21 is disposed with a conductive layer 25 matching a connection requirement of the pin 220.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The first surface is a surface of the substrate 21 that is parallel to the chip 22 and that is closest to the metal boss 23.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
A drill hole 24 is disposed between the other end of the metal boss 23 and the conductive layer 25 on the substrate 21, and a conductive material is filled in each drill hole 24.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
A cross-sectional area of the metal boss 23 is relatively small.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Therefore, in this embodiment, a cross section of the drill hole 24 may exceed a cross section range of the other end of the metal boss 23.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In this way, it can be ensured that a contact area of the other end of the metal boss 23 and the conductive material is not less than the cross-sectional area of the metal boss 23, thereby ensuring an effective connection between the metal boss and the conductive material.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
According to the foregoing structure, in the substrate, one end of the metal boss 23 is connected to a corresponding pin 220, and another end is connected to a conductive material in a corresponding drill hole 24.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In addition, on a surface of the substrate, the conductive material in the drill hole 24 is connected to the conductive layer, so that pins that are of a single chip or of a plurality of chips and that have the connection requirement on the embedded substrate implement a connection by using the metal boss and the conductive material.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIG. 2, interconnection among five pins is implemented.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The chip packaged in the foregoing structure may be a chip on which a pad has been disposed.	EMBODIMENT
That is, a metal boss maybe disposed on each pad, and then embedded packaging (including drilling, conductive material filling, conductive layer disposing, and the like) is performed on the chip.	EMBODIMENT
For a chip on which no pad is disposed, a metal boss may be directly disposed at each pin on the chip, and then embedded packaging is performed.	EMBODIMENT
It can be learned that in this embodiment of this application, when a normal connection between the pins is ensured, because the metal boss has a particular height (greater than 100 micrometers), a particular distance may be maintained between a deepest point of the drill hole and the chip.	EMBODIMENT
In this way, even though the drill hole exceeds a top surface range of the metal boss (for example, the metal boss is a cylinder boss having a diameter of 110 um, and the drill hole has a hole diameter of 150 umm), an exceeded region may have a substrate material whose thickness is the same as the height of the metal boss, to protect the chip from being damaged.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Therefore, in an actual machining process of the embedded substrate provided in this embodiment of this application, there is no need to limit a hole diameter of the drill hole based on a pad size or a metal boss size.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
For an embedded-substrate factory, this embodiment of this application may be applied to expand a chip type selection scope.	EMBODIMENT
That is, embedded packaging may be performed on any chip, with no need to consider whether a minimum hole diameter that can be reached by a drilling device of the embedded-substrate factory is less than a pad size of a chip.	EMBODIMENT
For a chip provider, this embodiment of this application may be applied to expand an embedded-substrate factory selection scope, and a minimum hole diameter that can be reached by a drilling device of each embedded-substrate factory is no longer a main selection limiting factor.	EMBODIMENT
Therefore, selection may be performed depending only on a factor such as a quotation, thereby helping reduce chip packaging costs.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
For example, a pad size of a chip A provided by a chip provider is 110 um, a minimum hole diameter of a drill hole that can be reached by a substrate factory C is 110 um, a quotation is 0.074 dollar, a minimum hole diameter of a drill hole that can be reached by a substrate factory D is 150 um, and a quotation is 0.068 dollar.	EMBODIMENT
According to the prior art, only the substrate factory C providing a higher quotation can be selected to perform embedded packaging on the chip A.	EMBODIMENT
However, in this embodiment of this application, there is no need to consider the pad size or a size of an additionally disposed metal boss of the chip A and the minimum hole diameters that can be reached by the substrate factories, and the substrate factory D providing a lower quotation can be selected to perform embedded packaging on the chip A.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Comparing with selecting the substrate factory C, packaging costs for each chip may be reduced by 0.006 dollar.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In addition, because the hole diameter of the drill hole in this embodiment of this application is not limited by the pad size or the metal boss size of the chip, in an actual packaging process, the hole diameter of the drill hole may be increased as much as possible, so as to improve through-flow and heat dissipation capabilities of the embedded substrate.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
FIG. 3 is a schematic structural diagram of another embedded substrate according to an embodiment of this application.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Compared with the structure shown in FIG. 2, FIG. 3 shows a specific structure of the substrate 21, including an intermediate substrate layer 211 and a first surface substrate layer 212 laminated on one surface of the intermediate substrate layer 211.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The intermediate substrate layer 211 is configured to embed the chip and the metal boss 23 of the chip.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
An end face of the other end of the metal boss 23 and the surface that is of the intermediate substrate layer 211 and on which the first surface substrate layer 212 is laminated are located in a same plane.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
That is, the end face of the metal boss 23 is exactly exposed on the surface of the intermediate substrate layer 211.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The intermediate substrate layer 211 may be filled and formed between chips.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
An outer surface of the first surface substrate layer 212 is used as the first surface (front face) of the embedded substrate, and is disposed with the conductive layer 25.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The drill hole 24 is disposed in a region between the end face of the other end of the metal boss 23 and the conductive layer 25 on the first surface substrate layer 212.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Because the end face of the metal boss 23 is exposed on the first surface of the intermediate substrate layer 211, the filled conductive material can be connected to the metal boss in the substrate provided that a drilling depth is not less than a thickness of the first surface substrate layer 212.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In an actual machining process, even though the end face of the metal boss 23 is embedded in the intermediate substrate layer 211 instead of being exposed on the surface of the intermediate substrate layer 211, a connection between the metal boss and the conductive material can be ensured by increasing a drilling depth during drilling.	EMBODIMENT
In a feasible embodiment of this application, the substrate 21 of the embedded substrate may further include a second surface substrate layer 213 laminated on the other surface of the intermediate substrate layer 211.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
According to an actual application requirement, an outer surface of the second surface substrate layer 213 is used as a second surface (back face) of the embedded substrate, and may also be disposed with a conductive layer (usually used as a ground terminal).	EMBODIMENT
In addition, the drill hole may extend through the entire substrate 21, so that the first surface and the second surface of the embedded substrate are in communication with each other, such as a drill hole 241 in FIG. 3.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Still referring to FIG. 3, in a feasible embodiment of this application, in addition to a chip 221 having various functions, electronic components embedded in the embedded substrate may further include a resistor-capacitor component 222 (that is, electronic components such as a capacitor and a resistor).	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The resistor-capacitor component 222 is directly connected to the conductive material in the drill hole inside the substrate 21.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In this embodiment of this application, to keep drilling depths consistent, and facilitate uniform control during a drilling operation, it needs to be ensured that an embedding depth of a top surface of the metal boss in the substrate is the same as an embedding depth of a surface on which a connecting terminal of the resistor-capacitor component is located in the substrate.	EMBODIMENT
That is, it needs to be ensured that the surface on which the connecting terminal of the resistor-capacitor component 222 is coplanar with the surface that is of the intermediate substrate layer and on which the first surface substrate layer is laminated, that is, coplanar with the end face of the metal boss, as shown in FIG. 3.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In view of this, the height h1 of the metal boss may be determined based on a maximum thickness h2 of the resistor-capacitor component to be embedded in the embedded substrate.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
A larger thickness h2 of the resistor-capacitor component indicates a larger substrate thickness required for performing embedded packaging.	EMBODIMENT
The height h1 of the metal boss may be set to a larger value, to protect, to a greater extent, the chip from being damaged.	EMBODIMENT
In a feasible embodiment of this application, a basic material used for the intermediate substrate layer, the first surface substrate layer, and the second surface substrate layer may be specifically a resin.	EMBODIMENT
The conductive layer on the surface of the substrate may be a metal plating layer, for example, a copper plating layer, that is, a metal wiring layer that satisfies a connection requirement of each pin on the embedded substrate and that is machined by using a plating process.	EMBODIMENT
The conductive material in the drill hole may also be copper, and specifically, may be filled by using a plating process, so that the electronic components (including the chip and the resistor-capacitor component) of the embedded substrate are connected to form a circuit having a particular function.	EMBODIMENT
It can be learned from the foregoing embodiment that the embedded substrate provided in this embodiment of this application is simple in structure, and a required process and material are easy to implement and obtain, without increasing manufacturing costs.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Especially, the metal boss is disposed at the pin on the chip, resolving a problem in a conventional embedded component packaging process that a hole diameter of a drill hole is limited by a pad size of a chip, making a drilling operation more easily performed without damaging the chip, expanding the chip type selection scope for the substrate factory, expanding the embedded-substrate factory selection scope for the chip provider, and helping save chip packaging costs.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In addition, because this embodiment of this application imposes no limitation on the hole diameter of the drill hole, the hole diameter can be increased as much as possible, to facilitate through-flow and heat dissipation of the embedded substrate.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Based on the foregoing structures, an embodiment of this application further provides a method for manufacturing an embedded substrate.	EMBODIMENT
FIG. 4 is a flowchart of the method for manufacturing an embedded substrate, and FIG. 5 is a schematic process flowchart corresponding to the method.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Referring to FIG. 4 and FIG. 5, the method for manufacturing an embedded substrate includes the following steps.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Step S1. Dispose a metal boss at each pin on a chip required by the embedded substrate, and electrically connect the pin to one end of the metal boss.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
For a chip 221 and a metal boss 23 required by the embedded substrate shown in FIG. 5, a height direction of the metal boss 23 is perpendicular to a plane in which the chip 221 is located.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In this embodiment, a height value of the metal boss 23 is greater than 100 micrometers.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Step S2. Determine, based on a preset structure of the embedded substrate, relative positions of electronic components required by the embedded substrate.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIG. 5, the electronic components include at least the chip 221.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In some feasible embodiments of this application, the electronic components may further include a resistor-capacitor component 222.	EMBODIMENT
Step S3. Fill a substrate material between the electronic components whose relative positions are determined, to form a substrate.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The electronic components are placed on a machining table based on the preset structure of the embedded substrate, and the relative positions of the electronic components are fixed.	EMBODIMENT
Then, a basic material is filled between the electronic components, to form the substrate.	EMBODIMENT
In addition, the electronic components and the metal boss can be embedded in the substrate.	EMBODIMENT
Step S4. Dispose a conductive layer on a first surface of the substrate based on a connection requirement of each electronic component.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The first surface may be a surface of the substrate that is parallel to the chip and that is closest to the metal boss.	EMBODIMENT
For details, refer to FIG. 2 to FIG. 4.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Step S5. Open a drill hole between the other end of the metal boss and the conductive layer on the substrate, and fill a conductive material in the drill hole.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In this embodiment, the conductive material in the drill hole is connected to an end face of the metal boss in the substrate, and is connected to the conductive layer on the first surface of the substrate, so that each pin is connected to the conductive layer by using the metal boss and the conductive material, thereby implementing a connection between different pins having the connection requirement.	EMBODIMENT
As shown in FIG. 5, four pins on the chip each are driven to the first surface of the embedded substrate by using the metal boss and the conductive material in the drill hole, connecting terminals of two resistor-capacitor components are also driven to the first surface of the embedded substrate by using the conductive material in the drill hole, and the pins and the connecting terminals are connected to other pins on the first surface of the embedded substrate by using a conductive layer 25.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In a feasible embodiment of this application, to keep drilling depths consistent, and facilitate uniform control during a drilling operation, it needs to be ensured that an embedding depth of an end face of the other end of the metal boss in the substrate is the same as an embedding depth of a surface on which a connecting terminal of the resistor-capacitor component is located in the substrate.	EMBODIMENT
That is, it needs to be ensured that the surface on which a connecting terminal of the resistor-capacitor component 222 is located is coplanar with a top surface of the metal boss in an intermediate substrate layer.	EMBODIMENT
Optionally, in this embodiment of this application, a height of the metal boss may be determined based on a maximum thickness of the resistor-capacitor component to be embedded in the embedded substrate.	EMBODIMENT
A larger thickness of the resistor-capacitor component indicates a larger substrate thickness required for performing embedded packaging.	EMBODIMENT
The height of the metal boss may be set to a larger value, to protect, to a greater extent, the chip from being damaged.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In this embodiment, a cross section of the drill hole exceeds a cross section range of the other end of the metal boss.	EMBODIMENT
Because the metal boss has a particular height, even though the cross section of the drill hole exceeds the cross section range of the other end of the metal boss, a substrate material having a substantial thickness protects the chip from being damaged.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Therefore, according to this embodiment of this application, a mutual limitation between a pad size of a chip and a minimum hole diameter of a drill hole in the prior art can be eliminated.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Persons skilled in the art may properly set a hole diameter of the drill hole based on factors such as drill hole density and chip heat dissipation.	EMBODIMENT
A plurality of drill holes 24 shown in FIG. 5 each have a hole diameter greater than a top surface diameter of the metal boss.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In addition, because the other end of the metal boss has a relatively small cross-sectional area, in this embodiment, the cross section of the drill hole exceeds the cross section range of the other end of the metal boss.	EMBODIMENT
It can be ensured that a contact area of the other end of the metal boss and the conductive material is not less than the cross-sectional area of the other end of the metal boss, thereby ensuring an effective connection between the metal boss and the conductive material.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
It can be learned that in an actual machining process of the embedded substrate provided in this embodiment of this application, there is no need to limit a hole diameter of the drill hole based on a pad size or a metal boss size.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
For an embedded-substrate factory, this embodiment of this application may be applied to expand a chip type selection scope.	EMBODIMENT
That is, embedded packaging may be performed on any chip, with no need to consider whether a minimum hole diameter that can be reached by a drilling device of the embedded-substrate factory is less than a pad size of a chip.	EMBODIMENT
For a chip provider, this embodiment of this application may be applied to expand an embedded-substrate factory selection scope, and a minimum hole diameter that can be reached by a drilling device of each embedded-substrate factory is no longer a main selection limiting factor.	EMBODIMENT
Therefore, selection may be performed depending only on a factor such as a quotation, thereby helping reduce chip packaging costs.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
In addition, because the hole diameter of the drill hole in this embodiment of this application is not limited by the pad size or the metal boss size of the chip, in an actual packaging process, the hole diameter of the drill hole may be increased as much as possible, so as to improve through-flow and heat dissipation capabilities of the embedded substrate.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Referring to FIG. 5, in a feasible embodiment of this application, step S3 of filling a substrate material between the electronic components whose relative positions are determined, to form a substrate may specifically include the following steps.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Step S31. Fill the substrate material between the electronic components whose relative positions are determined, to form an intermediate substrate layer 211.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
The resistor-capacitor component, the chip, and the metal boss are embedded in the intermediate substrate layer 211 by filling the substrate material.	EMBODIMENT
Step S32. Laminate a substrate material on a first surface of the intermediate substrate layer 211, to form a first surface substrate layer 212.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In a feasible embodiment, step S32 may further include: laminating a substrate material on a second surface of the intermediate substrate layer 211, to form a second surface substrate layer 213.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
Based on step S32, the drilling process in step S4 may be specifically performed on the first surface substrate layer 212.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In addition, the conductive layer in step S5 may also be disposed on the outer surface of the first surface substrate layer 212.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
As shown in FIG. 5, in some feasible embodiments, the surface of the second surface substrate layer 213 may also be disposed with a conductive layer, and the conductive layer is connected to the conductive layer on the outer surface of the first surface substrate layer by using the drill hole extending through the entire substrate.	FIGURE DESCRIPTION
In a feasible embodiment, when step S31 of filling the substrate material to form the intermediate substrate layer 211 is performed, the top surface of the metal boss and the surface on which the connecting terminal of the resistor-capacitor component is located may be controlled to be coplanar with the first surface of the intermediate substrate layer 211.	EMBODIMENT
Therefore, in step S4, drilling depths of the drill holes may be kept consistent with the thickness of the first surface substrate layer 212, to facilitate uniform control during a drilling operation.	EMBODIMENT
In another feasible embodiment, alternatively, the drilling depths may not be the same.	EMBODIMENT
When step S4 is performed, first, a drilling depth corresponding to each metal boss is determined based on an actual embedding depth of the chip in the substrate and a height value of each metal boss, and then, a drill hole is opened, based on the determined drilling depth, in a region corresponding to each metal boss on the first surface substrate layer and/or a region of the connecting terminal of the resistor-capacitor component.	EMBODIMENT
The substrate material used in this embodiment of this application may be a resin.	EMBODIMENT
The metal boss may be specifically machined from copper.	EMBODIMENT
The conductive material and the conductive layer may also use metal copper, and machined by using a plating process.	EMBODIMENT
It can be learned that the material used in the process of manufacturing an embedded substrate provided in this embodiment of this application is easy to obtain, and a used process technology is easy to implement.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
Especially, a mutual limitation between a pad size of a chip and a minimum hole diameter of a drill hole in the prior art is eliminated.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
This can increase the hole diameter of the drill hole as much as possible within an allowable range of drill hole density.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
On one hand, this reduces a performance requirement on a drilling device.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
On the other hand, this can improve through-flow and heat dissipation capabilities of the formed embedded substrate.	INVENTION_ADVANTAGE
For same or similar parts in the embodiments in this specification, reference may be made to these embodiments.	JURIDICAL TEMPLATE
The foregoing implementations of the present invention do not constitute a limitation on the protection scope of the present invention.	JURIDICAL TEMPLATE